The Nellie , a cruising yawl 
(a ship's small boat (usually rowed by 4 or 6 oars))

, swung to her anchor 
(a mechanical device that prevents a vessel from moving)

without a flutter 
(the act of moving back and forth)
of the sails 
(a large piece of fabric (usually canvas fabric) by means of which wind is used to propel a sailing vessel)

, and was at rest . The flood 
(the rising of a body of water and its overflowing onto normally dry land)

had made , the wind was nearly calm , and being 
(have the quality of being; (copula, used with an adjective or a predicate noun))

bound 
(a line determining the limits of an area)
down the river 
(a large natural stream of water (larger than a creek))

, the only thing for it was to come to and wait for the turn of the tide 
(the periodic rise and fall of the sea level under the gravitational pull of the moon)

. The sea-reach of the Thames stretched 
(occupy a large, elongated area)
before 
us like the beginning 
(the event consisting of the start of something)
of an interminable 
(tiresomely long; seemingly without end)

waterway 
(a navigable body of water)
. In the offing 
(the near or foreseeable future)

the sea and the sky were welded 
(join together by heating)
together without a joint 
(united or combined)

, and in the luminous 
(softly bright or radiant)
space the tanned 
(treat skins and hides with tannic acid so as to convert them into leather)

sails of the barges 
(a flatbottom boat for carrying heavy loads (especially on canals))

drifting 
(be in motion due to some air or water current)
up with the tide seemed 
(give a certain impression or have a certain outward aspect)

to stand still in red clusters 
(a grouping of a number of similar things)
of canvas 
(a heavy, closely woven fabric (used for clothing or chairs or sails or tents))

sharply 
(in an aggressive manner)
peaked 
(to reach the highest point; attain maximum intensity, activity)

, with gleams 
(an appearance of reflected light)
of varnished 
(having a coating of stain or varnish)

sprits 
(a light spar that crosses a fore-and-aft sail diagonally)
. A haze 
(atmospheric moisture or dust or smoke that causes reduced visibility)

rested 
(not move; be in a resting position)
on the low shores 
(the land along the edge of a body of water)

that ran out to sea in vanishing 
(a sudden or mysterious disappearance)
flatness 
(the property of having two dimensions)

. The air was dark above Gravesend , and farther back still seemed condensed 
(undergo condensation; change from a gaseous to a liquid state and fall in drops)

into a mournful 
(expressing sorrow)
gloom 
(a state of partial or total darkness)

, brooding 
(think moodily or anxiously about something)
motionless over the biggest 
(above average in size or number or quantity or magnitude or extent)

, and the greatest 
(highest in quality)
, town on earth . The Director of Companies 
was our captain 
(an officer holding a rank below a major but above a lieutenant)

and our host 
(a person who invites guests to a social event (such as a party in his or her own home) and who is responsible for them while they are there)

. We four affectionately 
(with affection)
watched 
(look attentively)
his back 
as he stood in the bows 
(a knot with two loops and loose ends; used to tie shoelaces)

looking 
(perceive with attention; direct one's gaze towards)
to seaward . On the 
whole river there was nothing that looked half so nautical 
(relating to or involving ships or shipping or navigation or seamen)

. He resembled 
(appear like; be similar or bear a likeness to)
a pilot 
(someone who is licensed to operate an aircraft in flight)

, which to a seaman 
(a man who serves as a sailor)
is trustworthiness 
(the trait of deserving trust and confidence)

personified 
(invest with or as with a body; give body to)
. It was difficult 
(not easy; requiring great physical or mental effort to accomplish or comprehend or endure)

to realize his work was not out there in the luminous estuary 
(the wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix)

, but behind him , within the brooding gloom . Between us there was , as I have 
already said somewhere , the bond 
(an electrical force linking atoms)
of the sea 
. Besides holding 
(keep in a certain state, position, or activity; e.g., "keep clean")

our hearts 
(a form of whist in which players avoid winning tricks containing hearts or the queen of spades)

together through long periods 
(an amount of time)
of separation 
(the state of lacking unity)

, it had the effect 
(a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon)

of making 
(engage in)
us tolerant 
(showing respect for the rights or opinions or practices of others)

of each other's yarns 
(the act of giving an account describing incidents or a course of events)

-- and even convictions 
(an unshakable belief in something without need for proof or evidence)

. The Lawyer -- the best of old fellows 
(a boy or man)
-- had , because of his 
many years 
(a late time of life)
and many virtues 
(the quality of doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong)

, the only cushion 
(a mechanical damper; absorbs energy of sudden impulses)
on 
deck 
(any of various platforms built into a vessel)
, and was lying 
(be located or situated somewhere; occupy a certain position)

on the only rug . The Accountant had brought out already a box of dominoes 
(any of several games played with small rectangular blocks)

, and was toying 
(behave carelessly or indifferently)
architecturally 
(with regard to architecture)

with the bones 
(a percussion instrument consisting of a pair of hollow pieces of wood or bone (usually held between the thumb and fingers) that are made to click together (as by Spanish dancers) in rhythm with the dance)

. Marlow sat cross-legged right aft , leaning 
(to incline or bend from a vertical position)

against the mizzen-mast . He had sunken 
(fall or descend to a lower place or level)

cheeks 
(either side of the face below the eyes)
, a yellow 
(of the color intermediate between green and orange in the color spectrum; of something resembling the color of an egg yolk)

complexion 
(the coloring of a person's face)
, a straight back , an ascetic 
(pertaining to or characteristic of an ascetic or the practice of rigorous self-discipline)

aspect 
(a distinct feature or element in a problem)
, and , with his arms 
(weapons considered collectively)

dropped 
(let fall to the ground)
, the palms 
(the inner surface of the hand from the wrist to the base of the fingers)

of hands 
((with `in') guardianship over; in divorce cases it is the right to house and care for and discipline a child)

outwards , resembled an idol 
(a material effigy that is worshipped)
. The director 
(someone who controls resources and expenditures)

, satisfied 
(meet the requirements or expectations of)
the anchor had good hold 
, made his way aft and sat down amongst us . We exchanged 
(give to, and receive from, one another)

a few words 
(the words that are spoken)
lazily 
(in a slow and lazy manner)
. Afterwards 
there was silence on board 
(a committee having supervisory powers)
the yacht 
(an expensive vessel propelled by sail or power and used for cruising or racing)

. For some reason or other we did not begin that game of dominoes . We felt meditative 
(deeply or seriously thoughtful; )

, and fit for nothing but placid 
((of a body of water) free from disturbance by heavy waves)

staring . The day was ending 
(have an end, in a temporal, spatial, or quantitative sense; either spatial or metaphorical)

in a serenity 
(a disposition free from stress or emotion)
of still and exquisite 
brilliance 
(a light within the field of vision that is brighter than the brightness to which the eyes are adapted)

. The water shone pacifically 
(in a peaceable manner)
; the sky , without a speck 
(a very small spot)

, was a benign immensity 
(unusual largeness in size or extent or number)
of unstained 
light ; the very mist on the Essex marsh 
(low-lying wet land with grassy vegetation; usually is a transition zone between land and water)

was like a gauzy 
(so thin as to transmit light)
and radiant 
(radiating or as if radiating light)

fabric , hung from the wooded rises 
(a growth in strength or number or importance)

inland , and draping 
(arrange in a particular way)
the low shores in diaphanous 
(so thin as to transmit light)

folds 
(an angular or rounded shape made by folding)
. Only 
(and nothing more)

the gloom to the west 
(the countries of (originally) Europe and (now including) North America and South America)

, brooding over the upper 
(the topmost one of two)
reaches 
(the limits within which something can be effective)

, became more sombre every minute , as if angered 
(make angry)
by the approach 
of the sun . And at last , in its curved 
(turn sharply; change direction abruptly)

and imperceptible 
(impossible or difficult to perceive by the mind or senses)
fall 
, the sun sank low , and from glowing 
(emit a steady even light without flames)

white changed 
(made or become different in nature or form)
to a dull red without 
rays 
(a column of light (as from a beacon))
and without heat 
(a form of energy that is transferred by a difference in temperature)

, as if about to go out suddenly , stricken to death by the touch of that gloom 
brooding over a crowd of men . Forthwith a change came over the waters 
(United States actress and singer (1896-1977))

, and the serenity became less brilliant 
(of surpassing excellence)
but more profound 
(showing intellectual penetration or emotional depth)

. The old river in its broad 
(having great (or a certain) extent from one side to the other)

reach rested unruffled at the decline 
(change toward something smaller or lower)

of day , after ages 
(how long something has existed)
of good service 
(work done by one person or group that benefits another)

done to the race that peopled 
(fill with people)
its banks 
(English botanist who accompanied Captain Cook on his first voyage to the Pacific Ocean (1743-1820))

, spread 
(distributed or spread over a considerable extent)
out in the tranquil 
dignity 
(the quality of being worthy of esteem or respect)
of a waterway leading 
(take somebody somewhere)

to the uttermost 
(of the greatest possible degree or extent or intensity)
ends 
(either extremity of something that has length)

of the earth . We looked at the venerable 
(impressive by reason of age)
stream 
(a natural body of running water flowing on or under the earth)

not in the vivid flush 
(the period of greatest prosperity or productivity)
of a 
short day that comes 
(move toward, travel toward something or somebody or approach something or somebody)

and departs for ever , but in the august 
(the month following July and preceding September)

light of abiding 
(dwell)
memories 
(something that is remembered)
. And indeed 
nothing is easier 
(posing no difficulty; requiring little effort)
for a man who 
has , as the phrase 
(an expression consisting of one or more words forming a grammatical constituent of a sentence)

goes 
(change location; move, travel, or proceed, also metaphorically)
, '' followed 
(to travel behind, go after, come after)

the sea '' with reverence 
(a feeling of profound respect for someone or something)

and affection 
(a positive feeling of liking)
, than to evoke 
(call forth (emotions, feelings, and responses))

the great spirit 
(the vital principle or animating force within living things)

of the past upon the lower 
(less than normal in degree or intensity or amount)

reaches of the Thames . The tidal current 
(occurring in or belonging to the present time)

runs 
(a score in baseball made by a runner touching all four bases safely)
to and 
fro in its unceasing service , crowded 
(cause to herd, drive, or crowd together)

with memories of men and ships 
(a vessel that carries passengers or freight)
it 
had borne to the rest of home or to the battles 
(a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war)

of the sea . It had known and served 
(serve a purpose, role, or function)
all the 
men of whom the nation 
(a politically organized body of people under a single government)

is proud , from Sir Francis Drake to Sir John Franklin , knights 
(originally a person of noble birth trained to arms and chivalry; today in Great Britain a person honored by the sovereign for personal merit)

all , titled 
(give a title to)
and untitled -- the great knights-errant of the 
sea . It had borne all the ships whose names 
(verbal abuse; a crude substitute for argument)

are like jewels 
(a precious or semiprecious stone incorporated into a piece of jewelry)

flashing 
(gleam or glow intermittently)
in the night of time , from the _Golden 
Hind_ returning with her rotund flanks 
(the side of military or naval formation)

full of treasure 
(accumulated wealth in the form of money or jewels etc.)
, to 
be visited 
(go to see a place, as for entertainment)
by the Queen 's Highness and 
thus 
((used to introduce a logical conclusion) from that fact or reason or as a result)

pass out of the gigantic 
(so exceedingly large or extensive as to suggest a giant or mammoth)

tale 
(a message that tells the particulars of an act or occurrence or course of events; presented in writing or drama or cinema or as a radio or television program)

, to the _Erebus_ and _Terror_ , bound on other conquests 
(the act of conquering)

-- and that never returned 
(go or come back to place, condition, or activity where one has been before)

. It had known the ships and the men . They had sailed 
(traverse or travel on (a body of water))

from Deptford , from Greenwich , from Erith -- the adventurers 
(a person who enjoys taking risks)

and the settlers 
(a person who settles in a new colony or moves into new country)

; kings 
(a male sovereign; ruler of a kingdom)
' ships and the ships of men on 
'Change ; captains 
(an officer holding a rank below a major but above a lieutenant)

, admirals 
(the supreme commander of a fleet; ranks above a vice admiral and below a fleet admiral)

, the dark `` interlopers 
(someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission)

'' of the Eastern trade 
(the commercial exchange (buying and selling on domestic or international markets) of goods and services)

, and the commissioned 
(put into commission; equip for service; of ships)
`` generals 
(a general officer of the highest rank)

'' of East India fleets 
(group of aircraft operating together under the same ownership)

. Hunters 
(someone who hunts game)
for gold 
(coins made of gold)
or pursuers 
(a person who is pursuing and trying to overtake or capture)

of fame 
(the state or quality of being widely honored and acclaimed)
, they all 
had gone out on that stream , bearing 
(have)
the sword 
(a cutting or thrusting weapon that has a long metal blade and a hilt with a hand guard)

, and often the torch 
(a light usually carried in the hand; consists of some flammable substance)

, messengers 
(a person who carries a message)
of the might within the land , bearers 
(someone whose employment involves carrying something)

of a spark 
(a momentary flash of light)
from the sacred fire . What greatness 
(the property possessed by something or someone of outstanding importance or eminence)

had not floated 
(be in motion due to some air or water current)
on the ebb 
(a gradual decline (in size or strength or power or number))

of that river into the mystery 
(something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained)

of an unknown 
(an unknown and unexplored region)
earth ! ... The dreams 
(a series of mental images and emotions occurring during sleep)

of men , the seed 
(a small hard fruit)
of commonwealths 
(the official name of some states in the United States (Massachusetts and Pennsylvania and Virginia and Kentucky) and associated territories (Puerto Rico))

, the germs 
(anything that provides inspiration for later work)
of empires 
(the domain ruled by an emperor or empress; the region over which imperial dominion is exercised)

. The sun set ; the dusk 
(the time of day immediately following sunset)
fell on 
the stream , and lights 
((physics) electromagnetic radiation that can produce a visual sensation)

began to appear along the shore 
(the land along the edge of a body of water)
. 
The Chapman light-house , a three-legged 
(having or as if having three legs)
thing 
erect on a mud-flat , shone strongly 
(with strength or in a strong manner)
. Lights 
((physics) electromagnetic radiation that can produce a visual sensation)

of ships moved 
(change location; move, travel, or proceed, also metaphorically)

in the fairway 
(the area between the tee and putting green where the grass is cut short)

-- a great stir 
(a prominent or sensational but short-lived news event)
of lights 
going 
(change location; move, travel, or proceed, also metaphorically)
up and going 
down . And farther 
(to or at a greater extent or degree or a more advanced stage (`further' is used more often than `farther' in this abstract sense))

west on the upper reaches the place of the monstrous 
(abnormally large)
town was 
still marked 
(attach a tag or label to)
ominously 
(in an ominous manner)
on the 
sky , a brooding gloom in sunshine 
(the rays of the sun)
, a lurid glare under 
the stars 
((astronomy) a celestial body of hot gases that radiates energy derived from thermonuclear reactions in the interior)

. `` And this also , '' said Marlow suddenly , `` has been one of the dark places 
(a point located with respect to surface features of some region)

of the earth . '' He was the only man of us who still `` followed the sea . '' The 
worst 
((superlative of `bad') most wanting in quality or value or condition)
that 
could be said of him was that he did not represent 
(take the place of or be parallel or equivalent to)

his class . He was a seaman , but he was a wanderer 
(someone who leads a wandering unsettled life)

, too , while most seamen 
(a man who serves as a sailor)
lead , if one may so express 
it , a sedentary 
(requiring sitting or little activity)
life . Their minds 
(that which is responsible for one's thoughts and feelings; the seat of the faculty of reason)

are of the stay-at-home 
(not given to travel)
order , and their home is always 
with them -- the ship ; and so is their country 
(a politically organized body of people under a single government)

-- the sea . One ship is very much like another , and the sea is always the same 
. In the immutability 
(the quality of being incapable of mutation)
of their surroundings 
(the environmental condition)

the foreign 
(of concern to or concerning the affairs of other nations (other than your own))

shores , the foreign faces 
(the front of the human head from the forehead to the chin and ear to ear)

, the changing immensity of life , glide 
(a vowellike sound that serves as a consonant)

past , veiled 
(to obscure, or conceal with or as if with a veil)
not by a sense 
of mystery but by a slightly disdainful 
(expressing extreme contempt)
ignorance 
(the lack of knowledge or education)

; for there is nothing mysterious 
(of an obscure nature)
to a seaman unless it 
be the sea itself , which is the mistress 
(an adulterous woman; a woman who has an ongoing extramarital sexual relationship with a man)

of his existence 
(the state or fact of existing)
and as inscrutable 
(of an obscure nature)

as Destiny . For the rest , after his hours 
(a period of time assigned for work)

of work , a casual 
(marked by blithe unconcern)
stroll 
(a leisurely walk (usually in some public place))

or a casual spree 
(a brief indulgence of your impulses)
on shore suffices to unfold 
(develop or come to a promising stage)

for him the secret 
(something that should remain hidden from others (especially information that is not to be passed on))

of a whole continent 
(one of the large landmasses of the earth)
, and generally 
(usually; as a rule)

he finds 
(come upon, as if by accident; meet with)
the secret not worth 
(worthy of being treated in a particular way)

knowing 
(a clear and certain mental apprehension)
. The yarns of seamen have a 
direct simplicity 
(the quality of being simple or uncompounded)
, the whole meaning 
(the message that is intended or expressed or signified)

of which lies 
(a statement that deviates from or perverts the truth)
within the 
shell 
(ammunition consisting of a cylindrical metal casing containing an explosive charge and a projectile; fired from a large gun)

of a cracked 
(become fractured; break or crack on the surface only)
nut . But Marlow 
was not typical 
(exhibiting the qualities or characteristics that identify a group or kind or category)

( if his propensity 
(an inclination to do something)
to spin 
(revolve quickly and repeatedly around one's own axis)

yarns be excepted 
(take exception to)
) , and to him the meaning of an episode 
(a happening that is distinctive in a series of related events)

was not inside like a kernel 
(the inner and usually edible part of a seed or grain or nut or fruit stone)

but outside , enveloping 
(enclose or enfold completely with or as if with a covering)

the tale which brought it out only as a glow 
(an alert and refreshed state)
brings 
(take something or somebody with oneself somewhere)

out a haze , in the likeness 
(similarity in appearance or character or nature between persons or things)

of one of these misty halos 
(an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint)

that sometimes are made visible 
(capable of being seen; or open to easy view)
by 
the spectral 
(of or relating to a spectrum)
illumination 
(a condition of spiritual awareness; divine illumination)

of moonshine 
(the light of the Moon)
. His remark 
(a statement that expresses a personal opinion or belief or adds information)

did not seem at all surprising 
(causing surprise or wonder or amazement)
. It was 
just like Marlow . It was accepted 
(consider or hold as true)
in silence . No one 
took the trouble to grunt 
(issue a grunting, low, animal-like noise)
even ; and 
presently 
(in the near future)
he said , very slow -- '' I was thinking 
(judge or regard; look upon; judge)

of very old times , when the Romans first came here , nineteen hundred years ago 
-- the other day ... . Light 
((physics) electromagnetic radiation that can produce a visual sensation)

came out of this river since -- you say Knights 
(originally a person of noble birth trained to arms and chivalry; today in Great Britain a person honored by the sovereign for personal merit)

? Yes ; but it is like a running 
((American football) a play in which a player attempts to carry the ball through or past the opposing team)

blaze 
(a strong flame that burns brightly)
on a plain , like a flash of lightning 
in the clouds 
(any collection of particles (e.g., smoke or dust) or gases that is visible)

. We live in the flicker 
(a momentary flash of light)
-- may it last as long as 
the old earth keeps 
(the financial means whereby one lives)
rolling 
(move by turning over or rotating)

! But darkness 
(absence of light or illumination)
was here yesterday 
(the day immediately before today)

. Imagine the feelings 
(emotional or moral sensitivity (especially in relation to personal principles or dignity))

of a commander 
(an officer in command of a military unit)
of a fine -- what d 'ye 
call 'em ? -- trireme 
(ancient Greek or Roman galley or warship having three tiers of oars on each side)

in the Mediterranean , ordered 
(give instructions to or direct somebody to do something with authority)

suddenly to the north 
(situated in or facing or moving toward or coming from the north)

; run overland across the Gauls in a hurry ; put in charge 
(an impetuous rush toward someone or something)

of one of these craft 
(the skilled practice of a practical occupation)
the legionaries 
(a soldier who is a member of a legion (especially the French Foreign Legion))

-- a wonderful 
(extraordinarily good or great; used especially as intensifiers)

lot of handy 
(United States blues musician who transcribed and published traditional blues music (1873-1958))

men they must have been , too -- used 
(put into service; make work or employ for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose)

to build , apparently by the hundred , in a month or two , if we may believe what 
we read . Imagine him here -- the very end of the world , a sea the colour 
(any material used for its color)

of lead , a sky the colour of smoke , a kind of ship about as rigid 
(incapable of or resistant to bending)

as a concertina 
(coiled barbed wire used as an obstacle)
-- and going up this river 
with stores 
(a mercantile establishment for the retail sale of goods or services)

, or orders 
((often plural) a command given by a superior (e.g., a military or law enforcement officer) that must be obeyed)

, or what you like . Sand-banks , marshes 
(low-lying wet land with grassy vegetation; usually is a transition zone between land and water)

, forests 
(the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area)
, savages 
(a member of an uncivilized people)

, -- precious 
(characterized by feeling or showing fond affection for)
little to 
eat fit for a civilized 
(having a high state of culture and development both social and technological)

man , nothing but Thames water to drink . No Falernian wine 
(fermented juice (of grapes especially))

here , no going ashore . Here 
(in or at this place; where the speaker or writer is)

and there a military 
(of or relating to the study of the principles of warfare)

camp 
(temporary living quarters specially built by the army for soldiers)
lost 
in a wilderness 
((politics) a state of disfavor)
, like a needle in a bundle 
(a collection of things wrapped or boxed together)

of hay 
(grass mowed and cured for use as fodder)
-- cold , fog 
(droplets of water vapor suspended in the air near the ground)

, tempests 
(a violent commotion or disturbance)
, disease 
(an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning)

, exile 
(a person who is voluntarily absent from home or country)
, and death -- 
death skulking 
(evading duty or work by pretending to be incapacitated)
in the 
air , in the water , in the bush 
(a low woody perennial plant usually having several major stems)

. They must have been dying 
(pass from physical life and lose all bodily attributes and functions necessary to sustain life)

like flies 
((theater) the space over the stage (out of view of the audience) used to store scenery (drop curtains))

here . Oh , yes -- he did it . Did it very well , too , no doubt , and without thinking 
much about it either , except afterwards to brag 
(show off)
of what he had gone 
through in his time , perhaps . They were men enough to face the darkness . And 
perhaps he was cheered 
(give encouragement to)
by keeping 
(conformity or harmony)

his eye on a chance of promotion 
(a message issued in behalf of some product or cause or idea or person or institution)

to the fleet 
(group of aircraft operating together under the same ownership)
at 
Ravenna by and by , if he had good friends 
(a person you know well and regard with affection and trust)

in Rome and survived 
(continue to live through hardship or adversity)
the awful 
(exceptionally bad or displeasing)

climate 
(the weather in some location averaged over some long period of time)
. 
Or think of a decent young citizen 
(a native or naturalized member of a state or other political community)

in a toga 
(a one-piece cloak worn by men in ancient Rome)
-- perhaps too much dice 
(a small cube with 1 to 6 spots on the six faces; used in gambling to generate random numbers)

, you know -- coming 
(move toward, travel toward something or somebody or approach something or somebody)

out here in the train of some prefect 
(a chief officer or chief magistrate)
, or 
tax-gatherer , or trader 
(someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold)

even , to mend 
(restore by replacing a part or putting together what is torn or broken)

his fortunes 
(an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another)

. Land in a swamp 
(low land that is seasonally flooded; has more woody plants than a marsh and better drainage than a bog)

, march 
(the month following February and preceding April)
through the woods 
(the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area)

, and in some inland post 
(the position where someone (as a guard or sentry) stands or is assigned to stand)

feel the savagery 
(the property of being untamed and ferocious)
, the utter savagery 
, had closed 
(move so that an opening or passage is obstructed; make shut)
round 
him -- all that mysterious life of the wilderness that stirs 
(a prominent or sensational but short-lived news event)

in the forest 
(the trees and other plants in a large densely wooded area)
, in 
the jungles 
(a location marked by an intense competition and struggle for survival)

, in the hearts of wild 
(marked by extreme lack of restraint or control)
men . 
There 's no initiation 
(a formal entry into an organization or position or office)

either into such mysteries 
(something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained)

. He has to live in the midst 
(the location of something surrounded by other things)

of the incomprehensible 
(incapable of being explained or accounted for)
, which 
is also detestable 
(offensive to the mind)
. And it has a fascination 
(the state of being intensely interested (as by awe or terror))

, too , that goes to work upon him . The fascination of the abomination 
(a person who is loathsome or disgusting)

-- you know , imagine the growing 
(pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific property or attribute; become)

regrets 
(a polite refusal of an invitation)
, the longing 
(prolonged unfulfilled desire or need)

to escape , the powerless disgust 
(strong feelings of dislike)
, the surrender 
(acceptance of despair)

, the hate . '' He paused 
(interrupt temporarily an activity before continuing)

. `` Mind , '' he began again , lifting 
(raise from a lower to a higher position)

one arm from the elbow 
(hinge joint between the forearm and upper arm and the corresponding joint in the forelimb of a quadruped)

, the palm 
(the inner surface of the hand from the wrist to the base of the fingers)

of the hand outwards , so that , with his legs 
(staying power)
folded 
(bend or lay so that one part covers the other)

before him , he had the pose of a Buddha preaching 
(an address of a religious nature (usually delivered during a church service))

in European 
(of or relating to or characteristic of Europe or the people of Europe)

clothes and without a lotus-flower -- '' Mind , none of us would feel exactly like 
this . What saves 
((sports) the act of preventing the opposition from scoring)

us is efficiency 
(the ratio of the output to the input of any system)
-- the devotion 
(feelings of ardent love)

to efficiency . But these chaps 
(a boy or man)
were not much account 
(be the sole or primary factor in the existence, acquisition, supply, or disposal of something)

, really . They were no colonists 
(a person who settles in a new colony or moves into new country)

; their administration 
(a method of tending to or managing the affairs of a some group of people (especially the group's business affairs))

was merely 
(and nothing more)
a squeeze 
(the act of gripping and pressing firmly)

, and nothing more , I suspect 
(imagine to be the case or true or probable)
. They 
were conquerors 
(someone who is victorious by force of arms)
, and for that you 
want only brute 
(resembling a beast; showing lack of human sensibility)
force -- 
nothing to boast 
(show off)
of , when you have it , since your strength 
(the property of being physically or mentally strong)

is just an accident 
(an unfortunate mishap; especially one causing damage or injury)

arising 
(come into existence; take on form or shape)
from the weakness 
(a flaw or weak point)

of others . They grabbed 
(take hold of so as to seize or restrain or stop the motion of)

what they could get for the sake 
(a reason for wanting something done)
of what 
was to be got . It was just robbery with violence 
(an act of aggression (as one against a person who resists))

, aggravated 
(make worse)
murder 
(unlawful premeditated killing of a human being by a human being)

on a great scale 
(an ordered reference standard)
, and men going at it blind 
(render unable to see)

-- as is very proper 
(marked by suitability or rightness or appropriateness)
for 
those who tackle 
(the person who plays that position on a football team)
a darkness 
. The conquest of the earth , which mostly 
(in large part; mainly or chiefly)
means 
(mean or intend to express or convey)

the taking 
(the act of someone who picks up or takes something)
it away from those 
who have a different complexion or slightly flatter 
(having a surface without slope, tilt in which no part is higher or lower than another)

noses 
(the organ of smell and entrance to the respiratory tract; the prominent part of the face of man or other mammals)

than ourselves , is not a pretty thing when you look into it too much . What redeems 
it is the idea only . An idea at the back of it ; not a sentimental 
(given to or marked by sentiment or sentimentality)

pretence 
(a false or unsupportable quality)
but an idea ; and an unselfish 
(disregarding your own advantages and welfare over those of others)

belief 
(any cognitive content held as true)
in the idea -- something you can set 
up , and bow 
(bend one's knee or body, or lower one's head)
down before , and offer 
a sacrifice 
(the act of losing or surrendering something as a penalty for a mistake or fault or failure to perform etc.)

to ... . '' He broke off . Flames glided 
(move smoothly and effortlessly)
in the 
river , small green flames 
(the process of combustion of inflammable materials producing heat and light and (often) smoke)

, red flames , white flames , pursuing 
(carry out or participate in an activity; be involved in)

, overtaking 
(catch up with and possibly overtake)
, joining 
(become part of; become a member of a group or organization)

, crossing 
(travel across or pass over)
each other -- then separating 
(act as a barrier between; stand between)

slowly or hastily 
(in a hurried or hasty manner)
. The traffic of the great city 
went on in the deepening 
(a process of becoming deeper and more profound)
night 
upon the sleepless river . We looked on , waiting 
(stay in one place and anticipate or expect something)

patiently 
(with patience; in a patient manner)
-- there was nothing else to do 
till the end of the flood ; but it was only after a long silence , when he said 
, in a hesitating voice , `` I suppose you fellows remember I did once turn fresh-water 
sailor 
(any member of a ship's crew)
for a bit , '' that we knew we were fated 
(decree or designate beforehand)

, before the ebb began to run , to hear about one of Marlow 's inconclusive 
(not conclusive; not putting an end to doubt or question)

experiences 
(the accumulation of knowledge or skill that results from direct participation in events or activities)

. `` I do n't want to bother you much with what happened 
(come to pass)
to me personally 
(as yourself)

, '' he began , showing 
(the display of a motion picture)
in this remark the weakness 
of many tellers 
(United States physicist (born in Hungary) who worked on the first atom bomb and the first hydrogen bomb (1908-2003))

of tales 
(a message that tells the particulars of an act or occurrence or course of events; presented in writing or drama or cinema or as a radio or television program)

who seem so often unaware 
((often followed by `of') not aware)
of what their audience 
(a gathering of spectators or listeners at a (usually public) performance)

would like best to hear ; `` yet to understand the effect of it on me you ought 
to know how I got out there , what I saw , how I went up that river to the place 
where I first met the poor 
(deserving or inciting pity)
chap 
(a boy or man)
. 
It was the farthest 
((comparatives of `far') most remote in space or time or order)

point of navigation 
(the guidance of ships or airplanes from place to place)
and 
the culminating point of my experience 
(the accumulation of knowledge or skill that results from direct participation in events or activities)

. It seemed somehow to throw a kind of light on everything about me -- and into 
my thoughts 
(the content of cognition; the main thing you are thinking about)
. 
It was sombre enough , too -- and pitiful 
(inspiring mixed contempt and pity)
-- 
not extraordinary 
(beyond what is ordinary or usual; highly unusual or exceptional or remarkable)

in any way -- not very clear either . No , not very clear . And yet it seemed to 
throw a kind of light . `` I had then , as you remember , just returned to London 
after a lot of Indian Ocean , Pacific , China Seas -- a regular 
(in accordance with fixed order or procedure or principle)

dose 
(a measured portion of medicine taken at any one time)
of the East -- six 
years or so , and I was loafing 
(be lazy or idle)
about , hindering you fellows 
in your work and invading 
(march aggressively into another's territory by military force for the purposes of conquest and occupation)

your homes 
(where you live at a particular time)
, just as though I had got a heavenly 
mission 
(an organization of missionaries in a foreign land sent to carry on religious work)

to civilize 
(teach or refine to be discriminative in taste or judgment)
you . It 
was very fine for a time , but after a bit I did get tired 
(lose interest or become bored with something or somebody)

of resting . Then 
(subsequently or soon afterward (often used as sentence connectors))

I began to look for a ship -- I should think the hardest 
(not easy; requiring great physical or mental effort to accomplish or comprehend or endure)

work on earth . But the ships would n't even look at me . And I got tired of that 
game , too . `` Now 
(in the historical present; at this point in the narration of a series of past events)

when I was a little chap I had a passion 
(a strong feeling or emotion)
for maps 
(a diagrammatic representation of the earth's surface (or part of it))

. I would look for hours at South America , or Africa , or Australia , and lose 
myself in all the glories 
(a state of high honor)
of exploration 
(to travel for the purpose of discovery)

. At that time there were many blank 
(a blank character used to separate successive words in writing or printing)

spaces 
(the unlimited expanse in which everything is located)
on the earth , and 
when I saw one that looked particularly 
(to a distinctly greater extent or degree than is common)

inviting 
(increase the likelihood of)
on a map 
(a diagrammatic representation of the earth's surface (or part of it))

( but they all look that ) I would put my finger on it and say , 'When I grow up 
I will go there . ' The North Pole was one of these places , I remember . Well , 
I have n't been there yet , and shall not try now . The glamour 
(alluring beauty or charm (often with sex-appeal))

's off . Other 
(not the same one or ones already mentioned or implied)
places were 
scattered 
(to cause to separate and go in different directions)
about the hemispheres 
(half of the terrestrial globe)

. I have been in some of them , and ... well , we wo n't talk about that . But there 
was one yet -- the biggest , the most blank , so to speak -- that I had a hankering 
(a yearning for something or to do something)

after . `` True 
(consistent with fact or reality; not false)
, by this time it 
was not a blank space any more . It had got filled 
(make full, also in a metaphorical sense)

since my boyhood 
(the childhood of a boy)
with rivers 
(a large natural stream of water (larger than a creek))

and lakes and names . It had ceased 
(put an end to a state or an activity)
to be 
a blank space of delightful 
(greatly pleasing or entertaining)
mystery -- a white 
patch 
(a small contrasting part of something)
for a boy to dream gloriously 
(with glory or in a glorious manner)

over . It had become a place of darkness . But there was in it one river especially 
, a mighty big river , that you could see on the map , resembling 
(appear like; be similar or bear a likeness to)

an immense snake 
(limbless scaly elongate reptile; some are venomous)
uncoiled 
(unwind or untwist)

, with its head in the sea , its body at rest curving 
(turn sharply; change direction abruptly)

afar over a vast 
(unusually great in size or amount or degree or especially extent or scope)

country , and its tail 
(the posterior part of the body of a vertebrate especially when elongated and extending beyond the trunk or main part of the body)

lost in the depths 
(the extent downward or backward or inward)
of the land . And 
as I looked at the map of it in a shop-window , it fascinated 
(cause to be interested or curious)

me as a snake would a bird 
(warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrates characterized by feathers and forelimbs modified as wings)

-- a silly little bird . Then I remembered 
(recall knowledge from memory; have a recollection)

there was a big concern , a Company for trade on that river . Dash it all ! I thought 
to myself , they ca n't trade without using 
(put into service; make work or employ for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose)

some kind of craft on that lot of fresh 
(recently made, produced, or harvested)

water -- steamboats 
(a boat propelled by a steam engine)
! Why should n't I try 
to get charge of one ? I went on along Fleet Street , but could not shake off the 
idea . The snake had charmed 
(attract; cause to be enamored)
me . `` You understand 
it was a Continental concern , that Trading society 
(an extended social group having a distinctive cultural and economic organization)

; but I have a lot of relations living 
(inhabit or live in; be an inhabitant of)

on the Continent , because it 's cheap and not so nasty 
(offensive or even (of persons) malicious)

as it looks 
(perceive with attention; direct one's gaze towards)
, they say . `` 
I am sorry to own I began to worry them . This was already a fresh departure 
(the act of departing)

for me . I was not used to get things 
(any movable possession (especially articles of clothing))

that way , you know . I always went my own road and on my own legs where I had a 
mind to go . I would n't have believed 
(accept as true; take to be true)
it of 
myself ; but , then -- you see -- I felt somehow I must get there by hook or by 
crook 
(someone who has committed a crime or has been legally convicted of a crime)

. So 
(to a very great extent or degree)
I worried 
(be worried, concerned, anxious, troubled, or uneasy)

them . The men said 'My dear fellow 
(a boy or man)
, ' and did nothing . Then -- 
would you believe it ? -- I tried 
(make an effort or attempt)
the women . I , Charlie 
Marlow , set the women to work -- to get a job . Heavens ! Well , you see , the 
notion 
(a vague idea in which some confidence is placed)
drove me . I had an aunt 
, a dear enthusiastic 
(having or showing great excitement and interest)
soul 
(the immaterial part of a person; the actuating cause of an individual life)

. She wrote 
(produce a literary work)
: 'It will be delightful . I am ready to 
do anything , anything for you . It is a glorious 
(having or deserving or conferring glory)

idea . I know the wife of a very high personage 
(another word for person; a person not meriting identification)

in the Administration , and also a man who has lots 
(a large number or amount)

of influence 
(a power to affect persons or events especially power based on prestige etc)

with , ' etc . She was determined 
(establish after a calculation, investigation, experiment, survey, or study)

to make no end of fuss 
(an excited state of agitation)
to get me appointed 
(create and charge with a task or function)

skipper 
(a student who fails to attend classes)
of a river steamboat , if such 
was my fancy 
(something many people believe that is false)
. `` I got my appointment 
(the act of putting a person into a non-elective position)

-- of course ; and I got it very quick . It appears 
(give a certain impression or have a certain outward aspect)

the Company had received 
(get something; come into possession of)
news 
(information about recent and important events)

that one of their captains had been killed 
(cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly)

in a scuffle 
(disorderly fighting)
with the natives 
(an indigenous person who was born in a particular place)

. This was my chance , and it made me the more anxious 
(eagerly desirous)
to go 
. It was only months 
(one of the twelve divisions of the calendar year)
and months 
afterwards , when I made the attempt to recover 
(get or find back; recover the use of)

what was left of the body , that I heard the original 
(preceding all others in time or being as first made or performed)

quarrel 
(an angry dispute)
arose from a misunderstanding 
(putting the wrong interpretation on)

about some hens 
(adult female chicken)
. Yes 
(an affirmative)
, two black hens 
. Fresleven -- that was the fellow 's name , a Dane -- thought himself wronged 
(treat unjustly; do wrong to)

somehow in the bargain 
(an agreement between parties (usually arrived at after discussion) fixing obligations of each)

, so he went ashore 
(towards the shore from the water)
and started 
(take the first step or steps in carrying out an action)

to hammer 
(the part of a gunlock that strikes the percussion cap when the trigger is pulled)

the chief 
(a person who is in charge)
of the village 
(a community of people smaller than a town)

with a stick . Oh , it did n't surprise me in the least to hear this , and at the 
same time to be told that Fresleven was the gentlest 
(soft and mild; not harsh or stern or severe)

, quietest 
(characterized by an absence or near absence of agitation or activity)

creature 
(a living organism characterized by voluntary movement)
that ever walked 
(use one's feet to advance; advance by steps)

on two legs . No doubt he was ; but he had been a couple of years already out there 
engaged 
(carry out or participate in an activity; be involved in)
in the noble 
(impressive in appearance)

cause , you know , and he probably felt the need at last of asserting 
(state categorically)

his self-respect in some way . Therefore he whacked 
(hit hard)
the old nigger 
((ethnic slur) extremely offensive name for a Black person)

mercilessly 
(without pity; in a merciless manner)
, while a big crowd of his people 
watched him , thunderstruck , till some man -- I was told the chief's son -- in 
desperation 
(a state in which all hope is lost or absent)
at hearing 
((law) a proceeding (usually by a court) where evidence is taken for the purpose of determining an issue of fact and reaching a decision based on that evidence)

the old chap yell , made a tentative 
(under terms not final or fully worked out or agreed upon)

jab 
(a sharp hand gesture (resembling a blow))
with a spear at the white man -- 
and of course it went quite easy between the shoulder-blades . Then the whole population 
(the people who inhabit a territory or state)

cleared 
(rid of obstructions)
into the forest , expecting 
(regard something as probable or likely)

all kinds 
(a category of things distinguished by some common characteristic or quality)

of calamities 
(an event resulting in great loss and misfortune)
to happen , while 
, on the other hand , the steamer 
(a clam that is usually steamed in the shell)

Fresleven commanded 
(be in command of)
left also in a bad panic 
(an overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety)

, in charge of the engineer 
(a person who uses scientific knowledge to solve practical problems)

, I believe . Afterwards nobody 
(a person of no influence)
seemed to trouble much 
about Fresleven 's remains 
(any object that is left unused or still extant)
, till 
I got out and stepped 
(shift or move by taking a step)
into his shoes 
(a particular situation)

. I could n't let it rest , though ; but when an opportunity 
(a possibility due to a favorable combination of circumstances)

offered 
(make available or accessible, provide or furnish)
at last to meet my predecessor 
(one who precedes you in time (as in holding a position or office))

, the grass 
(narrow-leaved green herbage: grown as lawns; used as pasture for grazing animals; cut and dried as hay)

growing through his ribs 
(support resembling the rib of an animal)
was tall enough 
to hide his bones . They were all there . The supernatural 
(not existing in nature or subject to explanation according to natural laws; not physical or material)

being had not been touched 
(make physical contact with, come in contact with)
after 
he fell . And the village was deserted 
(leave someone who needs or counts on you; leave in the lurch)

, the huts 
(temporary military shelter)
gaped 
(look with amazement; look stupidly)

black , rotting 
((biology) the process of decay caused by bacterial or fungal action)

, all askew within the fallen enclosures 
(a structure consisting of an area that has been enclosed for some purpose)

. A calamity 
(an event resulting in great loss and misfortune)
had come to it , 
sure enough . The people had vanished 
(get lost, as without warning or explanation)

. Mad terror 
(an overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety)
had scattered them , 
men , women , and children , through the bush , and they had never returned . What 
became of the hens I do n't know either . I should think the cause of progress 
(gradual improvement or growth or development)

got them , anyhow . However 
(despite anything to the contrary (usually following a concession))

, through this glorious affair 
(a vaguely specified concern)
I got my appointment 
, before I had fairly 
(to a moderately sufficient extent or degree)
begun 
(take the first step or steps in carrying out an action)

to hope for it . `` I flew 
(travel through the air; be airborne)
around like mad 
to get ready , and before forty-eight 
(being eight more than forty)
hours I was 
crossing the Channel to show myself to my employers 
(a person or firm that employs workers)

, and sign the contract 
(a binding agreement between two or more persons that is enforceable by law)

. In a very few hours I arrived 
(reach a destination; arrive by movement or progress)

in a city that always makes 
(engage in)
me think of a whited 
(turn white)
sepulchre 
(a chamber that is used as a grave)

. Prejudice no doubt . I had no difficulty 
(an effort that is inconvenient)
in 
finding 
(the act of determining the properties of something, usually by research or calculation)

the Company 's offices 
(place of business where professional or clerical duties are performed)

. It was the biggest thing in the town , and everybody I met was full of it . They 
were going to run an over-sea empire 
(the domain ruled by an emperor or empress; the region over which imperial dominion is exercised)

, and make no end of coin 
(a flat metal piece (usually a disc) used as money)
by 
trade . `` A narrow 
(a narrow strait connecting two bodies of water)
and deserted 
street in deep shadow , high houses 
(a dwelling that serves as living quarters for one or more families)

, innumerable 
(too numerous to be counted)
windows 
((trademark) an operating system with a graphical user interface)

with venetian 
(of or relating to or characteristic of Venice or its people)
blinds 
(people who have severe visual impairments, considered as a group)

, a dead silence , grass sprouting 
(produce buds, branches, or germinate)
right 
and left , immense double 
(having more than one decidedly dissimilar aspects or qualities; public preaching and private influence"- R.W.Emerson)

doors 
(a swinging or sliding barrier that will close the entrance to a room or building or vehicle)

standing 
(be standing; be upright)
ponderously 
(in an uninterestingly ponderous manner)

ajar 
(slightly open)
. I slipped 
(move stealthily)
through one of these cracks 
(a long narrow opening)

, went up a swept and ungarnished staircase 
(a way of access (upward and downward) consisting of a set of steps)

, as arid 
(lacking sufficient water or rainfall)
as a desert 
(arid land with little or no vegetation)

, and opened 
(cause to open or to become open)
the first door I came to . Two women 
, one fat and the other slim , sat on straw-bottomed chairs 
(a seat for one person, with a support for the back)

, knitting 
(make (textiles) by knitting)
black wool 
(a fabric made from the hair of sheep)

. The slim one got up and walked straight at me -- still knitting with downcast 
(directed downward)

eyes 
(opinion or judgment)
-- and only just as I began to think of getting 
(come into the possession of something concrete or abstract)

out of her way , as you would for a somnambulist 
(someone who walks about in their sleep)

, stood still , and looked up . Her dress was as plain as an umbrella-cover , and 
she turned 
(change orientation or direction, also in the abstract sense)
round 
without a word and preceded 
(be earlier in time; go back further)
me into a waiting-room 
. I gave my name , and looked about . Deal table in the middle , plain chairs all 
round the walls 
(an architectural partition with a height and length greater than its thickness; used to divide or enclose an area or to support another structure)

, on one end a large shining 
(the work of making something smooth and shiny by rubbing or waxing it)

map , marked with all the colours 
(a distinguishing emblem)
of a rainbow 
(an arc of colored light in the sky caused by refraction of the sun's rays by rain)

. There was a vast amount 
(a quantity of money)
of red -- good to see at any time 
, because one knows 
(the fact of being aware of information that is known to few people)

that some real work is done in there , a deuce 
(a tie in tennis or table tennis that requires winning two successive points to win the game)

of a lot of blue , a little green , smears 
(slanderous defamation)
of orange 
(of the color between red and yellow; similar to the color of a ripe orange)

, and , on the East Coast , a purple 
(a purple color or pigment)
patch , to show 
where the jolly 
(to a moderately sufficient extent or degree)
pioneers 
(open up an area or prepare a way)

of progress drink the jolly lager-beer . However , I was n't going into any of these 
. I was going into the yellow . Dead in the centre 
(a low-lying region in central France)

. And the river was there -- fascinating 
(cause to be interested or curious)
-- 
deadly 
(as if dead)
-- like a snake . Ough ! A door opened , a white-haired 
(showing characteristics of age, especially having grey or white hair)

secretarial 
(of or relating to a secretary or to a secretary's work)
head , but 
wearing 
(be dressed in)
a compassionate expression , appeared 
(give a certain impression or have a certain outward aspect)

, and a skinny 
(confidential information about a topic or person)
forefinger 
(the finger next to the thumb)

beckoned 
(signal with the hands or nod)
me into the sanctuary . Its 
(the branch of engineering that deals with the use of computers and telecommunications to retrieve and store and transmit information)

light was dim 
(lacking in light; not bright or harsh)
, and a heavy writing-desk 
squatted 
(sit on one's heels)
in the middle . From behind that structure 
(a thing constructed; a complex entity constructed of many parts)

came out an impression 
(a vague idea in which some confidence is placed)
of pale 
(a wooden strip forming part of a fence)

plumpness 
(the bodily property of being well rounded)
in a frock-coat . The great 
man himself . He was five feet six , I should judge 
(determine the result of (a competition))

, and had his grip on the handle-end of ever so many millions 
(the number that is represented as a one followed by 6 zeros)

. He shook hands , I fancy , murmured 
(speak softly or indistinctly)
vaguely 
(in a vague way)

, was satisfied with my French 
(of or pertaining to France or the people of France)

. _Bon Voyage_ . `` In about forty-five 
(being five more than forty)
seconds 
(1/60 of a minute; the basic unit of time adopted under the Systeme International d'Unites)

I found myself again in the waiting-room with the compassionate secretary 
(a person who is head of an administrative department of government)

, who , full of desolation 
(the state of being decayed or destroyed)
and sympathy 
, made me sign some document 
(writing that provides information (especially information of an official nature))

. I believe I undertook 
(enter upon an activity or enterprise)
amongst other things 
not to disclose 
(make known to the public information that was previously known only to a few people or that was meant to be kept a secret)

any trade secrets 
(something that should remain hidden from others (especially information that is not to be passed on))

. Well , I am not going to . `` I began to feel slightly uneasy 
(lacking a sense of security or affording no ease or reassurance)

. You know I am not used to such ceremonies 
(a formal event performed on a special occasion)

, and there was something ominous 
(threatening or foreshadowing evil or tragic developments)

in the atmosphere 
(a particular environment or surrounding influence)
. It was 
just as though I had been let into some conspiracy 
(a secret agreement between two or more people to perform an unlawful act)

-- I don't know -- something not quite right ; and I was glad to get out . In the 
outer room the two women knitted 
(make (textiles) by knitting)
black wool feverishly 
(in a feverish manner)

. People 
((plural) any group of human beings (men or women or children) collectively)

were arriving 
(reach a destination; arrive by movement or progress)
, and the younger 
one was walking 
(use one's feet to advance; advance by steps)
back and forth introducing 
them . The old one sat on her chair . Her flat 
(having a surface without slope, tilt in which no part is higher or lower than another)

cloth slippers 
(low footwear that can be slipped on and off easily; usually worn indoors)

were propped 
(support by placing against something solid or rigid)
up on a foot-warmer 
, and a cat reposed 
(put or confide something in a person or thing)
on her lap 
(the upper side of the thighs of a seated person)

. She wore a starched white affair on her head , had a wart 
(any small rounded protuberance (as on certain plants or animals))

on one cheek , and silver-rimmed spectacles 
(optical instrument consisting of a frame that holds a pair of lenses for correcting defective vision)

hung on the tip 
(the extreme end of something; especially something pointed)
of 
her nose . She glanced 
(throw a glance at; take a brief look at)
at me above the 
glasses 
(optical instrument consisting of a frame that holds a pair of lenses for correcting defective vision)

. The swift 
(United States meat-packer who began the use of refrigerated railroad cars (1839-1903))

and indifferent placidity 
(a feeling of calmness; a quiet and undisturbed feeling)

of that look troubled 
(move deeply)
me . Two youths 
(a young person (especially a young man or boy))

with foolish 
(devoid of good sense or judgment)
and cheery countenances 
(the appearance conveyed by a person's face)

were being piloted 
(operate an airplane)
over , and she threw at them the same 
quick glance of unconcerned wisdom 
(accumulated knowledge or erudition or enlightenment)

. She seemed to know all about them and about me , too . An eerie feeling 
(undergo an emotional sensation or be in a particular state of mind)

came over me . She seemed uncanny 
(suggesting the operation of supernatural influences)

and fateful 
(having momentous consequences; of decisive importance)
. Often 
(many times at short intervals)

far away there I thought of these two , guarding 
(to keep watch over)
the door 
of Darkness , knitting black wool as for a warm pall 
(a sudden numbing dread)
, 
one introducing , introducing continuously 
(at every point)
to the unknown , the 
other scrutinizing the cheery and foolish faces with unconcerned old eyes . _Ave 
! _ Old knitter 
(someone who makes garments (or fabrics) by intertwining yarn or thread)

of black wool . _Morituri te salutant_ . Not 
(negation of a word or group of words)

many of those she looked at ever saw her again -- not half , by a long way . `` 
There was yet a visit to the doctor . 'A simple 
(any herbaceous plant having medicinal properties)

formality 
(a requirement of etiquette or custom)
, ' assured 
(make certain of)

me the secretary , with an air of taking an immense part in all my sorrows 
(an emotion of great sadness associated with loss or bereavement)

. Accordingly 
((sentence connectors) because of the reason given)
a young chap 
wearing his hat over the left eyebrow , some clerk 
(an employee who performs clerical work (e.g., keeps records or accounts))

I suppose -- there must have been clerks 
(an employee who performs clerical work (e.g., keeps records or accounts))

in the business , though the house was as still as a house in a city of the dead 
-- came from somewhere up-stairs , and led me forth . He was shabby and careless 
, with inkstains on the sleeves 
(the part of a garment that is attached at the armhole and that provides a cloth covering for the arm)

of his jacket , and his cravat 
(neckwear worn in a slipknot with long ends overlapping vertically in front)

was large and billowy , under a chin 
(the protruding part of the lower jaw)
shaped 
(shape or influence; give direction to)

like the toe 
(one of the digits of the foot)
of an old boot 
(footwear that covers the whole foot and lower leg)

. It was a little too early for the doctor , so I proposed 
(make a proposal, declare a plan for something)

a drink , and thereupon he developed 
(make something new, such as a product or a mental or artistic creation)

a vein 
(a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart)

of joviality 
(feeling jolly and jovial and full of good humor)
. As we sat over 
our vermouths 
(any of several white wines flavored with aromatic herbs; used as aperitifs or in mixed drinks)

he glorified 
(praise, glorify, or honor)
the Company 's business , and by and by 
I expressed 
(give expression to)
casually 
(not methodically or according to plan)

my surprise at him not going out there . He became very cool and collected 
(get or gather together)

all at once . 'I am not such a fool 
(a person who lacks good judgment)
as I look 
, quoth Plato to his disciples 
(someone who believes and helps to spread the doctrine of another)

, ' he said sententiously 
(in a pithy sententious manner)
, emptied 
(make void or empty of contents)

his glass with great resolution 
(a formal expression by a meeting; agreed to by a vote)

, and we rose . `` The old doctor felt my pulse 
((electronics) a sharp transient wave in the normal electrical state (or a series of such transients))

, evidently 
(unmistakably (`plain' is often used informally for `plainly'))
thinking 
of something else the while . 'Good , good for there , ' he mumbled 
(talk indistinctly; usually in a low voice)

, and then with a certain 
(definite but not specified or identified)
eagerness 
(a positive feeling of wanting to push ahead with something)

asked 
(inquire about)
me whether I would let him measure 
(determine the measurements of something or somebody, take measurements of)

my head . Rather 
(on the contrary; rather (or instead), he wrote her a letter")

surprised 
(cause to be surprised)
, I said Yes , when he produced 
(bring forth or yield)

a thing like calipers 
(an instrument for measuring the distance between two points (often used in the plural))

and got the dimensions 
(the magnitude of something in a particular direction (especially length or width or height))

back and front and every way , taking notes 
(a brief written record)
carefully 
. He was an unshaven 
(not shaved)
little man in a threadbare coat 
(an outer garment that has sleeves and covers the body from shoulder down; worn outdoors)

like a gaberdine 
(a loose coverall (coat or frock) reaching down to the ankles)

, with his feet in slippers , and I thought him a harmless fool . 'I always ask 
leave , in the interests 
(a sense of concern with and curiosity about someone or something)

of science 
(a particular branch of scientific knowledge)
, to measure the crania 
(the part of the skull that encloses the brain)

of those going out there , ' he said . 'And when they come back , too ? ' I asked 
. 'Oh , I never see them , ' he remarked 
(make mention of)
; 'and , moreover 
(in addition; furthermore, their quality is improving"; moreover, mice nested there")

, the changes 
(an event that occurs when something passes from one state or phase to another)

take place inside , you know . ' He smiled 
(change one's facial expression by spreading the lips, often to signal pleasure)

, as if at some quiet joke . 'So you are going out there . Famous 
(widely known and esteemed)

. Interesting 
(arousing or holding the attention)
, too . ' He gave me a searching 
(try to locate or discover, or try to establish the existence of)

glance , and made another note . 'Ever any madness 
(obsolete terms for legal insanity)

in your family ? ' he asked , in a matter-of-fact 
(not fanciful or imaginative)

tone . I felt very annoyed 
(cause annoyance in; disturb, especially by minor irritations)

. 'Is that question in the interests of science , too ? ' 'It would be , ' he said 
, without taking notice of my irritation 
(the psychological state of being irritated or annoyed)

, 'interesting for science to watch the mental 
(involving the mind or an intellectual process)

changes of individuals 
(a human being)
, on the spot , but ... ' 'Are you an alienist 
(a psychiatrist and specialist in the legal aspects of mental illness)

? ' I interrupted 
(make a break in)
. 'Every doctor should be -- a little , ' answered 
(react verbally)

that original , imperturbably . 'I have a little theory 
(a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world; an organized system of accepted knowledge that applies in a variety of circumstances to explain a specific set of phenomena)

which you messieurs who go out there must help me to prove 
(be shown or be found to be)

. This is my share in the advantages 
(the quality of having a superior or more favorable position)

my country shall reap 
(gather, as of natural products)
from the possession 
(the act of having and controlling property)

of such a magnificent dependency 
(the state of relying on or being controlled by someone or something else)

. The mere 
(being nothing more than specified)
wealth 
(the state of being rich and affluent; having a plentiful supply of material goods and money)

I leave to others . Pardon my questions 
(an instance of questioning)
, but you 
are the first Englishman coming under my observation 
(the act of making and recording a measurement)

... ' I hastened 
(act or move at high speed)
to assure 
(make certain of)
him I 
was not in the least typical . 'If I were , ' said I , 'I would n't be talking 
(exchange thoughts; talk with)

like this with you . ' 'What you say is rather profound , and probably erroneous 
(containing or characterized by error)

, ' he said , with a laugh . 'Avoid irritation more than exposure 
(vulnerability to the elements; to the action of heat or cold or wind or rain; )

to the sun . _Adieu_ . How do you English say , eh ? Good-bye . Ah ! Good-bye . 
_Adieu_ . In the tropics 
(the part of the Earth's surface between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn; characterized by a hot climate)

one must before everything keep calm. ' ... He lifted 
(raise from a lower to a higher position)

a warning 
(a message informing of danger)
forefinger ... . '_Du calme , du calme_ 
. ' `` One thing more remained 
(stay the same; remain in a certain state)
to do 
-- say good-bye to my excellent aunt . I found her triumphant 
(joyful and proud especially because of triumph or success)

. I had a cup of tea -- the last decent cup of tea for many days 
(the time during which someone's life continues)

-- and in a room that most soothingly 
(in a soothing manner)
looked just as you 
would expect a lady 's drawing-room to look , we had a long quiet chat by the fireside 
(an area near a fireplace (usually paved and extending out into a room))

. In the course of these confidences 
(freedom from doubt; belief in yourself and your abilities)

it became quite plain to me I had been represented 
(take the place of or be parallel or equivalent to)

to the wife of the high dignitary 
(an important or influential (and often overbearing) person)

, and goodness 
(that which is pleasing or valuable or useful)
knows to how many 
more people besides , as an exceptional 
(far beyond what is usual in magnitude or degree)

and gifted 
(give qualities or abilities to)
creature -- a piece of good fortune 
(an unknown and unpredictable phenomenon that causes an event to result one way rather than another)

for the Company -- a man you do n't get hold of every day . Good heavens ! and I 
was going to take charge of a two-penny-half-penny river-steamboat with a penny 
whistle 
(the sound made by something moving rapidly or by steam coming out of a small aperture)

attached 
(cause to be attached)
! It appeared , however , I was also one of the 
Workers , with a capital 
(assets available for use in the production of further assets)

-- you know . Something like an emissary of light , something like a lower sort 
of apostle 
(an ardent early supporter of a cause or reform)
. There had been a 
lot of such rot let loose in print 
(the text appearing in a book, newspaper, or other printed publication)

and talk just about that time , and the excellent woman , living right in the rush 
of all that humbug 
(pretentious or silly talk or writing)
, got carried 
(move while supporting, either in a vehicle or in one's hands or on one's body)

off her feet . She talked 
(exchange thoughts; talk with)
about 'weaning those ignorant 
(uneducated in general; lacking knowledge or sophistication)

millions from their horrid 
(exceedingly bad)
ways , ' till , upon my word , she 
made me quite uncomfortable 
(conducive to or feeling mental discomfort)
. I ventured 
(proceed somewhere despite the risk of possible dangers)

to hint 
(drop a hint; intimate by a hint)
that the Company was run for profit 
(the excess of revenues over outlays in a given period of time (including depreciation and other non-cash expenses))

. `` 'You forget , dear Charlie , that the labourer 
(someone who works with their hands; someone engaged in manual labor)

is worthy 
(having worth or merit or value; being honorable or admirable)
of his 
hire 
(a newly hired employee)
, ' she said , brightly 
(with brightness)
. It 's 
queer 
(offensive term for an openly homosexual man)
how out of touch with truth 
women are . They live in a world of their own , and there has never been anything 
like it , and never can be . It is too beautiful altogether 
(informal terms for nakedness)

, and if they were to set it up it would go to pieces 
(a separate part of a whole)

before the first sunset 
(the time in the evening at which the sun begins to fall below the horizon)

. Some confounded 
(be confusing or perplexing to; cause to be unable to think clearly)

fact we men have been living contentedly 
(with equanimity)
with ever since the 
day of creation 
(the human act of creating)
would start up and knock the whole 
thing over . `` After this I got embraced 
(include in scope; include as part of something broader; have as one's sphere or territory)

, told to wear flannel 
(a soft light woolen fabric; used for clothing)
, be sure 
to write often , and so on -- and I left . In the street -- I do n't know why -- 
a queer feeling came to me that I was an imposter 
(a person who makes deceitful pretenses)

. Odd thing that I , who used to clear out for any part of the world at twenty-four 
(being four more than twenty)

hours ' notice , with less thought than most men give to the crossing of a street 
, had a moment -- I wo n't say of hesitation 
(indecision in speech or action)
, 
but of startled 
(to stimulate to action)
pause , before this commonplace 
(a trite or obvious remark)

affair . The best way I can explain it to you is by saying 
(express in words)
that 
, for a second or two , I felt as though , instead of going to the centre of a continent 
, I were about to set off for the centre of the earth . `` I left in a French steamer 
, and she called 
(assign a specified (usually proper) proper name to)
in every 
blamed 
(put or pin the blame on)
port they have out there , for , as far as I could 
see , the sole 
(not divided or shared with others)
purpose 
(an anticipated outcome that is intended or that guides your planned actions)

of landing 
(an intermediate platform in a staircase)
soldiers 
(an enlisted man or woman who serves in an army)

and custom-house officers 
(any person in the armed services who holds a position of authority or command)

. I watched the coast 
(the shore of a sea or ocean)
. Watching a coast as it slips 
(move stealthily)

by the ship is like thinking about an enigma 
(something that baffles understanding and cannot be explained)

. There it is before you -- smiling 
(change one's facial expression by spreading the lips, often to signal pleasure)

, frowning 
(look angry or sullen, wrinkle one's forehead, as if to signal disapproval)

, inviting , grand 
(the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100)
, mean 
, insipid 
(lacking taste or flavor or tang)
, or savage 
(a member of an uncivilized people)

, and always mute 
(expressed without speech)
with an air of whispering 
(speak softly; in a low voice)

, 'Come and find out . ' This one was almost featureless 
(lacking distinguishing characteristics or features)

, as if still in the making , with an aspect of monotonous 
(tediously repetitious or lacking in variety; all work and no play")

grimness 
(the quality of being ghastly)
. The edge of a colossal jungle 
(a location marked by an intense competition and struggle for survival)

, so dark-green 
(of the color between blue and yellow in the color spectrum; similar to the color of fresh grass)

as to be almost black , fringed 
(adorn with a fringe)
with white surf 
(waves breaking on the shore)

, ran straight , like a ruled 
(subject to a ruling authority)
line , far , far 
away along a blue sea whose glitter 
(the quality of shining with a bright reflected light)

was blurred 
(become glassy; lose clear vision)
by a creeping 
(a slow mode of locomotion on hands and knees or dragging the body)

mist . The sun was fierce , the land seemed to glisten 
(be shiny, as if wet)
and 
drip 
(fall in drops)
with steam 
(water at boiling temperature diffused in the atmosphere)

. Here and there greyish-whitish specks 
(a very small spot)
showed 
(give an exhibition of to an interested audience)

up clustered 
(come together as in a cluster or flock)
inside the white surf , with 
a flag 
(emblem usually consisting of a rectangular piece of cloth of distinctive design)

flying 
(travel through the air; be airborne)
above them perhaps . Settlements 
(a body of people who settle far from home but maintain ties with their homeland; inhabitants remain nationals of their home state but are not literally under the home state's system of government)

some centuries 
(a period of 100 years)
old , and still no bigger 
(large or big relative to something else)

than pinheads 
(an ignorant or foolish person)
on the untouched 
(still full)
expanse 
(a wide scope)

of their background 
(a person's social heritage: previous experience or training)

. We pounded 
(hit hard with the hand, fist, or some heavy instrument)
along , stopped 
(come to a halt, stop moving)

, landed 
(reach or come to rest)
soldiers ; went on , landed custom-house clerks 
to levy 
(impose and collect)
toll 
(a fee levied for the use of roads or bridges (used for maintenance))

in what looked like a God-forsaken wilderness , with a tin shed 
(get rid of)
and 
a flag-pole lost in it ; landed more soldiers -- to take care of the custom-house 
clerks , presumably 
(by reasonable assumption)
. Some , I heard , got drowned 
(cover completely or make imperceptible)

in the surf ; but whether they did or not , nobody seemed particularly to care . 
They were just flung out there , and on we went . Every day the coast looked the 
same , as though we had not moved ; but we passed 
(go across or through)
various 
(of many different kinds purposefully arranged but lacking any uniformity)

places -- trading 
(buying or selling securities or commodities)
places -- with 
names like Gran ' Bassam , Little Popo ; names that seemed to belong to some sordid 
(morally degraded)

farce 
(a comedy characterized by broad satire and improbable situations)
acted 
(perform an action, or work out or perform (an action))

in front of a sinister 
(threatening or foreshadowing evil or tragic developments)

back-cloth . The idleness 
(having no employment)
of a passenger 
(a traveler riding in a vehicle (a boat or bus or car or plane or train etc) who is not operating it)

, my isolation 
(a state of separation between persons or groups)
amongst all these 
men with whom I had no point of contact 
(close interaction)
, the oily and languid 
sea , the uniform 
(clothing of distinctive design worn by members of a particular group as a means of identification)

sombreness 
(a state of partial or total darkness)
of the coast , seemed to keep 
me away from the truth of things , within the toil 
(productive work (especially physical work done for wages))

of a mournful and senseless delusion 
((psychology) an erroneous belief that is held in the face of evidence to the contrary)

. The voice of the surf heard now and then was a positive 
(characterized by or displaying affirmation or acceptance or certainty etc.)

pleasure 
(a fundamental feeling that is hard to define but that people desire to experience)

, like the speech 
(the act of delivering a formal spoken communication to an audience)

of a brother . It was something natural 
(in accordance with nature; relating to or concerning nature)

, that had its reason , that had a meaning . Now and then a boat 
(a small vessel for travel on water)

from the shore gave one a momentary 
(lasting for a markedly brief time)
contact 
with reality 
(all of your experiences that determine how things appear to you)

. It was paddled 
(propel with a paddle)
by black fellows . You could see from afar 
the white of their eyeballs 
(the ball-shaped capsule containing the vertebrate eye)

glistening 
(be shiny, as if wet)
. They shouted 
(utter in a loud voice; talk in a loud voice (usually denoting characteristic manner of speaking))

, sang ; their bodies 
(the entire structure of an organism (an animal, plant, or human being))

streamed 
(to extend, wave or float outward, as if in the wind)
with perspiration 
(salty fluid secreted by sweat glands)

; they had faces like grotesque 
(art characterized by an incongruous mixture of parts of humans and animals interwoven with plants)

masks 
(a covering to disguise or conceal the face)
-- these chaps ; but they had 
bone 
(study intensively, as before an exam)
, muscle 
(one of the contractile organs of the body)

, a wild vitality 
(an energetic style)
, an intense energy 
((physics) a thermodynamic quantity equivalent to the capacity of a physical system to do work; the units of energy are joules or ergs)

of movement 
(a change of position that does not entail a change of location)
, 
that was as natural and true 
(consistent with fact or reality; not false)
as the 
surf along their coast . They wanted 
(feel or have a desire for; want strongly)

no excuse for being there . They were a great comfort 
(a state of being relaxed and feeling no pain)

to look at . For a time I would feel I belonged 
(be owned by; be in the possession of)

still to a world of straightforward facts 
(a piece of information about circumstances that exist or events that have occurred)

; but the feeling would not last long . Something would turn up to scare it away 
. Once , I remember , we came upon a man-of-war anchored 
(fix firmly and stably)

off the coast . There was n't even a shed there , and she was shelling 
(use explosives on)

the bush . It appears the French had one of their wars 
(the waging of armed conflict against an enemy)

going on thereabouts . Her ensign 
(a person who holds a commissioned rank in the United States Navy or the United States Coast Guard; below lieutenant junior grade)

dropped limp 
(the uneven manner of walking that results from an injured leg)
like 
a rag ; the muzzles 
(the open circular discharging end of a gun)
of the long six-inch 
guns 
(a weapon that discharges a missile at high velocity (especially from a metal tube or barrel))

stuck out all over the low hull 
(dry outer covering of a fruit or seed or nut)

; the greasy , slimy swell 
(the undulating movement of the surface of the open sea)

swung her up lazily and let her down , swaying 
(move back and forth or sideways)

her thin masts 
(a vertical spar for supporting sails)
. In the empty immensity 
of earth , sky , and water , there she was , incomprehensible , firing 
(start firing a weapon)

into a continent . Pop , would go one of the six-inch guns ; a small flame 
(the process of combustion of inflammable materials producing heat and light and (often) smoke)

would dart 
(move along rapidly and lightly; skim or dart)
and vanish 
(get lost, as without warning or explanation)

, a little white smoke would disappear , a tiny projectile 
(a weapon that is forcibly thrown or projected at a targets but is not self-propelled)

would give a feeble 
(pathetically lacking in force or effectiveness)
screech 
(a high-pitched noise resembling a human cry)

-- and nothing happened . Nothing 
(a quantity of no importance)
could happen . 
There was a touch of insanity 
(relatively permanent disorder of the mind)
in the 
proceeding 
((law) the institution of a sequence of steps by which legal judgments are invoked)

, a sense of lugubrious 
(excessively mournful)
drollery 
(a comic incident or series of incidents)

in the sight ; and it was not dissipated 
(to cause to separate and go in different directions)

by somebody 
(a human being)
on board assuring me earnestly 
(in a serious manner)

there was a camp of natives -- he called them enemies ! -- hidden 
(not accessible to view)

out of sight somewhere . `` We gave her her letters 
(the literary culture)
( I 
heard the men in that lonely ship were dying of fever at the rate 
(a magnitude or frequency relative to a time unit)

of three a day ) and went on . We called at some more places with farcical 
(broadly or extravagantly humorous; resembling farce)

names , where the merry dance of death and trade goes on in a still and earthy 
(conspicuously and tastelessly indecent)

atmosphere as of an overheated 
(get excessively and undesirably hot)
catacomb 
(an underground tunnel with recesses where bodies were buried (as in ancient Rome))

; all along the formless coast bordered 
(extend on all sides of simultaneously; encircle)

by dangerous 
(involving or causing danger or risk; liable to hurt or harm)
surf 
, as if Nature herself had tried to ward off intruders 
(someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission)

; in and out of rivers , streams 
(a natural body of running water flowing on or under the earth)

of death in life , whose banks were rotting into mud 
(water soaked soil; soft wet earth)

, whose waters , thickened 
(make thick or thicker)
into slime 
(any thick, viscous matter)

, invaded 
(march aggressively into another's territory by military force for the purposes of conquest and occupation)

the contorted 
(twist and press out of shape)
mangroves 
(a tropical tree or shrub bearing fruit that germinates while still on the tree and having numerous prop roots that eventually form an impenetrable mass and are important in land building)

, that seemed to writhe at us in the extremity 
(an external body part that projects from the body)

of an impotent despair 
(a state in which all hope is lost or absent)
. Nowhere 
did we stop long enough to get a particularized 
(be specific about)
impression 
, but the general 
(applying to all or most members of a category or group)
sense 
of vague and oppressive 
(weighing heavily on the senses or spirit)
wonder grew 
(pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific property or attribute; become)

upon me . It was like a weary 
(physically and mentally fatigued)
pilgrimage 
(a journey to a sacred place)

amongst hints 
(an indirect suggestion)
for nightmares 
(a situation resembling a terrifying dream)

. `` It was upward 
(directed up)
of thirty 
(the cardinal number that is the product of ten and three)

days before I saw the mouth of the big river . We anchored off the seat of the government 
(the organization that is the governing authority of a political unit)

. But my work would not begin till some two hundred miles 
(a unit of length equal to 1,760 yards or 5,280 feet; exactly 1609.344 meters)

farther on . So as soon as I could I made a start for a place thirty miles higher 
(advanced in complexity or elaboration)

up . `` I had my passage 
(the act of passing from one state or place to the next)

on a little sea-going steamer . Her captain was a Swede , and knowing me for a seaman 
, invited 
(increase the likelihood of)
me on the bridge 
(a structure that allows people or vehicles to cross an obstacle such as a river or canal or railway etc.)

. He was a young man , lean , fair 
(free from favoritism or self-interest or bias or deception; conforming with established standards or rules)

, and morose , with lanky 
(tall and thin and having long slender limbs)
hair and 
a shuffling 
(walking with a slow dragging motion without lifting your feet)
gait 
(the rate of moving (especially walking or running))

. As we left the miserable 
(very unhappy; full of misery)
little wharf 
(a platform built out from the shore into the water and supported by piles; provides access to ships and boats)

, he tossed 
(throw or toss with a light motion)
his head contemptuously 
(without respect; in a disdainful manner)

at the shore . 'Been living there ? ' he asked . I said , 'Yes . ' 'Fine lot these 
government chaps -- are they not ? ' he went on , speaking 
(express in speech)

English with great precision 
(the quality of being reproducible in amount or performance)

and considerable 
(large or relatively large in number or amount or extent or degree)

bitterness 
(a feeling of deep and bitter anger and ill-will)
. 'It is funny what 
some people will do for a few francs 
(the basic monetary unit in many countries; equal to 100 centimes)

a month . I wonder what becomes of that kind when it goes upcountry ? ' I said to 
him I expected 
(regard something as probable or likely)
to see that soon . 'So-o-o 
! ' he exclaimed 
(utter aloud; often with surprise, horror, or joy)
. He shuffled 
(walk by dragging one's feet)

athwart , keeping one eye ahead vigilantly 
(in a watchful manner)
. 'Do n't be 
too sure , ' he continued 
(continue a certain state, condition, or activity)
. 
'The other day I took up a man who hanged 
(be suspended or hanging)
himself on 
the road . He was a Swede , too . ' 'Hanged himself ! Why , in God 's name ? ' I 
cried 
(utter a sudden loud cry)
. He kept on looking out watchfully 
(in a watchful manner)

. 'Who knows ? The sun too much for him , or the country perhaps . ' `` At last 
we opened a reach . A rocky 
(abounding in rocks or stones)
cliff 
(a steep high face of rock)

appeared , mounds 
((baseball) the slight elevation on which the pitcher stands)

of turned-up earth by the shore , houses on a hill 
(a local and well-defined elevation of the land)

, others with iron 
(a heavy ductile magnetic metallic element; is silver-white in pure form but readily rusts; used in construction and tools and armament; plays a role in the transport of oxygen by the blood)

roofs 
(a protective covering that covers or forms the top of a building)
, amongst 
a waste 
(any materials unused and rejected as worthless or unwanted)
of excavations 
(the act of digging)

, or hanging 
(be suspended or hanging)
to the declivity 
(a downward slope or bend)

. A continuous 
(continuing in time or space without interruption)
noise of the 
rapids 
(a part of a river where the current is very fast)
above hovered 
(be undecided about something; waver between conflicting positions or courses of action)

over this scene 
(the place where some action occurs)
of inhabited 
(inhabit or live in; be an inhabitant of)

devastation 
(the state of being decayed or destroyed)
. A lot of people , mostly 
black and naked , moved about like ants . A jetty 
(a protective structure of stone or concrete; extends from shore into the water to prevent a beach from washing away)

projected 
(communicate vividly)
into the river . A blinding sunlight 
(the rays of the sun)

drowned all this at times in a sudden recrudescence 
(a return of something after a period of abatement)

of glare . 'There 's your Company 's station 
(a facility equipped with special equipment and personnel for a particular purpose)

, ' said the Swede , pointing 
(indicate a place, direction, person, or thing; either spatially or figuratively)

to three wooden barrack-like structures 
(a thing constructed; a complex entity constructed of many parts)

on the rocky slope 
(an elevated geological formation)
. 'I will send your things 
up . Four boxes 
(a (usually rectangular) container; may have a lid)
did you say 
? So . Farewell . ' `` I came upon a boiler 
(sealed vessel where water is converted to steam)

wallowing 
(devote oneself entirely to something; indulge in to an immoderate degree, usually with pleasure)

in the grass , then found a path 
(a course of conduct)
leading up the hill . It 
turned aside 
(on or to one side)
for the boulders 
(a large smooth mass of rock detached from its place of origin)

, and also for an undersized 
(smaller than normal for its kind)
railway-truck lying 
there on its back with its wheels 
(a simple machine consisting of a circular frame with spokes (or a solid disc) that can rotate on a shaft or axle (as in vehicles or other machines))

in the air . One was off . The thing looked as dead as the carcass 
(the dead body of an animal especially one slaughtered and dressed for food)

of some animal . I came upon more pieces of decaying 
(lose a stored charge, magnetic flux, or current)

machinery 
(machines or machine systems collectively)
, a stack 
(an orderly pile)

of rusty rails 
(a bar or pair of parallel bars of rolled steel making the railway along which railroad cars or other vehicles can roll)

. To the left a clump 
(a grouping of a number of similar things)
of trees 
(a tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a distinct elevated crown; includes both gymnosperms and angiosperms)

made a shady 
((of businesses and businessmen) unscrupulous)
spot , where dark things 
seemed to stir feebly 
(in a faint and feeble manner)
. I blinked 
(briefly shut the eyes)

, the path was steep 
(having a sharp inclination)
. A horn 
(a noisemaker (as at parties or games) that makes a loud noise when you blow through it)

tooted 
(make a loud noise)
to the right , and I saw the black people run . A heavy 
and dull detonation 
(a violent release of energy caused by a chemical or nuclear reaction)

shook the ground , a puff 
(a short light gust of air)
of smoke came out of the 
cliff , and that was all . No change appeared on the face of the rock . They were 
building 
(make by combining materials and parts)
a railway 
(line that is the commercial organization responsible for operating a system of transportation for trains that pull passengers or freight)

. The cliff was not in the way or anything ; but this objectless blasting 
(make a strident sound)

was all the work going on . `` A slight clinking 
(make a high sound typical of glass)

behind me made me turn my head . Six black men advanced 
(move forward, also in the metaphorical sense)

in a file 
(a set of related records (either written or electronic) kept together)

, toiling 
(work hard)
up the path . They walked erect and slow , balancing 
(bring into balance or equilibrium)

small baskets 
(a container that is usually woven and has handles)
full of earth 
on their heads 
(the upper part of the human body or the front part of the body in animals; contains the face and brains)

, and the clink 
(a short light metallic sound)
kept time with their footsteps 
(the sound of a step of someone walking)

. Black rags 
(a small piece of cloth or paper)
were wound 
(cause injuries or bodily harm to)

round their loins 
(the lower part of the abdomen just above the external genital organs)

, and the short ends behind waggled 
(move from side to side)
to and fro like tails 
(formalwear consisting of full evening dress for men)

. I could see every rib 
(support resembling the rib of an animal)
, the joints 
((anatomy) the point of connection between two bones or elements of a skeleton (especially if it allows motion))

of their limbs 
(one of the jointed appendages of an animal used for locomotion or grasping: arm; leg; wing; flipper)

were like knots 
(a tight cluster of people or things)
in a rope 
(a strong line)

; each had an iron collar 
(a band that fits around the neck and is usually folded over)

on his neck , and all were connected 
(connect, fasten, or put together two or more pieces)

together with a chain 
(a series of things depending on each other as if linked together)

whose bights 
(a loop in a rope)
swung between them , rhythmically 
(in a rhythmic manner)

clinking . Another report 
(a written document describing the findings of some individual or group)

from the cliff made me think suddenly of that ship of war I had seen firing into 
a continent . It was the same kind of ominous voice ; but these men could by no 
stretch 
(a large and unbroken expanse or distance)
of imagination 
(the formation of a mental image of something that is not perceived as real and is not present to the senses)

be called enemies . They were called criminals 
(someone who has committed a crime or has been legally convicted of a crime)

, and the outraged 
(angered at something unjust or wrong)
law 
(the collection of rules imposed by authority)

, like the bursting shells 
(ammunition consisting of a cylindrical metal casing containing an explosive charge and a projectile; fired from a large gun)

, had come to them , an insoluble 
((of a substance) incapable of being dissolved)

mystery from the sea . All their meagre breasts 
(the front of the trunk from the neck to the abdomen)

panted 
(breathe noisily, as when one is exhausted)
together , the violently 
(in a violent manner)

dilated 
(become wider)
nostrils 
(either one of the two external openings to the nasal cavity in the nose)

quivered 
(shake with fast, tremulous movements)
, the eyes stared 
(look at with fixed eyes)

stonily 
(in a stony manner)
uphill 
(against difficulties)
. They passed me within 
six inches 
(a unit of length equal to one twelfth of a foot)
, without a glance 
, with that complete , deathlike indifference 
(unbiased impartial unconcern)
of 
unhappy savages . Behind this raw matter one of the reclaimed 
(claim back)
, the 
product 
(commodities offered for sale)
of the new forces 
(a powerful effect or influence)

at work , strolled 
(walk leisurely and with no apparent aim)
despondently 
(with desperation)

, carrying 
(move while supporting, either in a vehicle or in one's hands or on one's body)

a rifle 
(a shoulder firearm with a long barrel and a rifled bore)
by its middle 
. He had a uniform jacket with one button 
(a round fastener sewn to shirts and coats etc to fit through buttonholes)

off , and seeing 
(perceive by sight or have the power to perceive by sight)
a white 
man on the path , hoisted 
(raise or haul up with or as if with mechanical help)

his weapon 
(any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting)
to his 
shoulder with alacrity 
(liveliness and eagerness)
. This was simple prudence 
(discretion in practical affairs)

, white men being so much alike at a distance 
(the property created by the space between two objects or points)

that he could not tell who I might be . He was speedily 
(with rapid movements)

reassured 
(cause to feel sure; give reassurance to)
, and with a large , white 
, rascally grin , and a glance at his charge , seemed to take me into partnership 
(the members of a business venture created by contract)

in his exalted 
(praise, glorify, or honor)
trust . After all , I also was a part 
of the great cause of these high and just proceedings 
((law) the institution of a sequence of steps by which legal judgments are invoked)

. `` Instead 
(in place of, or as an alternative to)
of going up , I turned and 
descended 
(move downward and lower, but not necessarily all the way)
to the left 
. My idea was to let that chain-gang get out of sight before I climbed 
(go upward with gradual or continuous progress)

the hill . You know I am not particularly tender 
(given to sympathy or gentleness or sentimentality)

; I 've had to strike 
(deliver a sharp blow, as with the hand, fist, or weapon)

and to fend 
(try to manage without help)
off . I 've had to resist 
(elude, especially in a baffling way)

and to attack sometimes -- that 's only one way of resisting 
(elude, especially in a baffling way)

-- without counting 
(the act of counting; reciting numbers in ascending order)

the exact cost 
(the total spent for goods or services including money and time and labor)

, according 
(go together)
to the demands 
(an urgent or peremptory request)
of 
such sort of life as I had blundered 
(commit a faux pas or a fault or make a serious mistake)

into . I 've seen the devil 
((Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell)

of violence , and the devil of greed 
(excessive desire to acquire or possess more (especially more material wealth) than one needs or deserves)

, and the devil of hot desire 
(the feeling that accompanies an unsatisfied state)

; but , by all the stars ! these were strong , lusty , red-eyed devils 
((Judeo-Christian and Islamic religions) chief spirit of evil and adversary of God; tempter of mankind; master of Hell)

, that swayed 
(move back and forth or sideways)
and drove men -- men , I tell you 
. But as I stood on this hillside 
(the side or slope of a hill)
, I foresaw 
(realize beforehand)

that in the blinding sunshine of that land I would become acquainted 
(cause to come to know personally)

with a flabby , pretending 
(make believe with the intent to deceive)
, weak-eyed 
devil of a rapacious 
(living by preying on other animals especially by catching living prey)

and pitiless folly . How insidious 
(beguiling but harmful)
he could be , too , 
I was only to find out several months later 
(coming at a subsequent time or stage)

and a thousand 
(the cardinal number that is the product of 10 and 100)
miles farther 
. For a moment I stood appalled 
(strike with disgust or revulsion)
, as though 
by a warning . Finally 
(after an unspecified period of time or an especially long delay)

I descended the hill , obliquely 
(to, toward or at one side)
, towards the trees 
I had seen . `` I avoided 
(stay clear from; keep away from; keep out of the way of someone or something)

a vast artificial 
(contrived by art rather than nature)
hole somebody had been 
digging 
(turn up, loosen, or remove earth)
on the slope , the purpose of which 
I found it impossible 
(not capable of occurring or being accomplished or dealt with)

to divine 
(terms referring to the Judeo-Christian God)
. It wasn't a quarry 
(a person who is the aim of an attack (especially a victim of ridicule or exploitation) by some hostile person or influence)

or a sandpit 
(a large pit in sandy ground from which sand is dug)
, anyhow . It 
was just a hole . It might have been connected with the philanthropic 
(generous in assistance to the poor)

desire of giving 
(cause to have, in the abstract sense or physical sense)
the criminals 
something to do . I do n't know . Then I nearly fell into a very narrow ravine 
(a deep narrow steep-sided valley (especially one formed by running water))

, almost no more than a scar in the hillside . I discovered 
(discover or determine the existence, presence, or fact of)

that a lot of imported 
(bring in from abroad)
drainage-pipes for the settlement 
(a body of people who settle far from home but maintain ties with their homeland; inhabitants remain nationals of their home state but are not literally under the home state's system of government)

had been tumbled 
(fall down, as if collapsing)
in there . There was n't one that 
was not broken . It was a wanton 
(lewd or lascivious woman)
smash-up 
(a serious collision (especially of motor vehicles))

. At last I got under the trees . My purpose was to stroll into the shade 
(relative darkness caused by light rays being intercepted by an opaque body)

for a moment ; but no sooner within than it seemed to me I had stepped into the 
gloomy circle 
(ellipse in which the two axes are of equal length; a plane curve generated by one point moving at a constant distance from a fixed point)

of some Inferno . The rapids were near , and an uninterrupted 
(having undisturbed continuity)

, uniform , headlong 
(excessively quick)
, rushing 
(move fast)
noise filled the 
mournful stillness 
((poetic) tranquil silence)
of the grove 
(a small growth of trees without underbrush)

, where not a breath stirred 
(move an implement through)
, not a leaf 
(the main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants)

moved , with a mysterious sound -- as though the tearing 
(shedding tears)
pace 
of the launched 
(set up or found)
earth had suddenly become audible 
(heard or perceptible by the ear)

. `` Black shapes 
(shape or influence; give direction to)
crouched 
(bend one's back forward from the waist on down)

, lay , sat between the trees leaning against the trunks 
(trousers that end at or above the knee)

, clinging 
(come or be in close contact with; stick or hold together and resist separation)

to the earth , half coming out , half effaced 
(remove completely from recognition or memory)

within the dim light , in all the attitudes 
(a complex mental state involving beliefs and feelings and values and dispositions to act in certain ways)

of pain , abandonment 
(the act of giving something up)
, and despair . Another 
mine on the cliff went off , followed by a slight shudder 
(an almost pleasurable sensation of fright)

of the soil 
(the state of being covered with unclean things)
under my feet . The 
work was going on . The work ! And this was the place where some of the helpers 
(a person who contributes to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose)

had withdrawn 
(pull back or move away or backward)
to die . `` They were dying 
slowly -- it was very clear . They were not enemies , they were not criminals , 
they were nothing earthly now -- nothing but black shadows 
(shade within clear boundaries)

of disease and starvation 
(a state of extreme hunger resulting from lack of essential nutrients over a prolonged period)

, lying confusedly 
(in a confused manner)
in the greenish 
(of the color between blue and yellow in the color spectrum; similar to the color of fresh grass)

gloom . Brought from all the recesses 
(a state of abeyance or suspended business)

of the coast in all the legality 
(lawfulness by virtue of conformity to a legal statute)

of time contracts 
(a binding agreement between two or more persons that is enforceable by law)

, lost in uncongenial 
(not suitable to your tastes or needs)
surroundings , fed 
(provide as food)

on unfamiliar food , they sickened 
(cause aversion in; offend the moral sense of)

, became inefficient , and were then allowed 
(make it possible through a specific action or lack of action for something to happen)

to crawl 
(a very slow movement)
away and rest . These moribund shapes were free 
as air -- and nearly as thin . I began to distinguish 
(mark as different)
the gleam 
(an appearance of reflected light)

of the eyes under the trees . Then , glancing 
(throw a glance at; take a brief look at)

down , I saw a face near my hand . The black bones reclined 
(move the upper body backwards and down)

at full length 
(the linear extent in space from one end to the other; the longest dimension of something that is fixed in place)

with one shoulder against the tree , and slowly the eyelids 
(either of two folds of skin that can be moved to cover or open the eye)

rose and the sunken eyes looked up at me , enormous 
(extraordinarily large in size or extent or amount or power or degree; that a whole civilization should be dependent on technology"- Walter Lippman)

and vacant 
(void of thought or knowledge)
, a kind of blind , white flicker in 
the depths of the orbs 
(the ball-shaped capsule containing the vertebrate eye)

, which died 
(pass from physical life and lose all bodily attributes and functions necessary to sustain life)

out slowly . The man seemed young -- almost a boy -- but you know with them it's 
hard to tell . I found nothing else to do but to offer him one of my good Swede 
's ship 's biscuits 
(small round bread leavened with baking-powder or soda)
I had 
in my pocket . The fingers 
(any of the terminal members of the hand (sometimes excepting the thumb))

closed slowly on it and held -- there was no other movement and no other glance 
. He had tied 
(fasten or secure with a rope, string, or cord)
a bit of white worsted 
(defeat thoroughly)

round his neck -- Why ? Where did he get it ? Was it a badge 
(an emblem (a small piece of plastic or cloth or metal) that signifies your status (rank or membership or affiliation etc.))

-- an ornament 
(something used to beautify)
-- a charm 
(attractiveness that interests or pleases or stimulates)

-- a propitiatory act ? Was there any idea at all connected with it ? It looked 
startling 
(to stimulate to action)
round his black neck , this bit of white thread 
(a fine cord of twisted fibers (of cotton or silk or wool or nylon etc.) used in sewing and weaving)

from beyond the seas 
(a division of an ocean or a large body of salt water partially enclosed by land)

. `` Near the same tree two more bundles 
(a collection of things wrapped or boxed together)

of acute 
(having or experiencing a rapid onset and short but severe course)
angles 
(the space between two lines or planes that intersect; the inclination of one line to another; measured in degrees or radians)

sat with their legs drawn 
(cause to move by pulling)
up . One , with his chin propped 
on his knees 
(hinge joint in the human leg connecting the tibia and fibula with the femur and protected in front by the patella)

, stared at nothing , in an intolerable 
(incapable of being put up with)
and appalling 
(strike with disgust or revulsion)

manner 
(how something is done or how it happens)
: his brother phantom 
(a ghostly appearing figure)

rested its forehead 
(the part of the face above the eyes)
, as if overcome with 
a great weariness 
(temporary loss of strength and energy resulting from hard physical or mental work)

; and all about others were scattered in every pose of contorted collapse 
(an abrupt failure of function or complete physical exhaustion)

, as in some picture of a massacre 
(the savage and excessive killing of many people)

or a pestilence 
(a serious (sometimes fatal) infection of rodents caused by Yersinia pestis and accidentally transmitted to humans by the bite of a flea that has bitten an infected animal)

. While I stood horror-struck 
(stricken with horror)
, one of these creatures 
(a living organism characterized by voluntary movement)

rose to his hands and knees , and went off on all-fours towards the river to drink 
. He lapped 
(lie partly over or alongside of something or of one another)
out of 
his hand , then sat up in the sunlight , crossing his shins 
(the front part of the human leg between the knee and the ankle)

in front of him , and after a time let his woolly head fall on his breastbone 
(the flat bone that articulates with the clavicles and the first seven pairs of ribs)

. `` I did n't want any more loitering 
(be about)
in the shade , and I made haste 
towards the station . When near the buildings 
(a structure that has a roof and walls and stands more or less permanently in one place)

I met a white man , in such an unexpected 
(not expected or anticipated)
elegance 
(a refined quality of gracefulness and good taste)

of get-up that in the first moment I took him for a sort of vision 
(a vivid mental image)

. I saw a high starched collar , white cuffs 
(the lap consisting of a turned-back hem encircling the end of the sleeve or leg)

, a light alpaca 
(wool of the alpaca)
jacket , snowy trousers 
((usually in the plural) a garment extending from the waist to the knee or ankle, covering each leg separately)

, a clean necktie 
(neckwear consisting of a long narrow piece of material worn (mostly by men) under a collar and tied in knot at the front)

, and varnished boots 
(footwear that covers the whole foot and lower leg)
. No 
hat . Hair parted 
(go one's own way; move apart)
, brushed 
(rub with a brush, or as if with a brush)

, oiled 
(cover with oil, as if by rubbing)
, under a green-lined parasol 
(a handheld collapsible source of shade)

held in a big white hand . He was amazing 
(affect with wonder)
, and had a penholder 
behind his ear . `` I shook hands with this miracle 
(any amazing or wonderful occurrence)

, and I learned 
(gain knowledge or skills)
he was the Company's chief accountant 
(someone who maintains and audits business accounts)

, and that all the book-keeping was done at this station . He had come out for a 
moment , he said , 'to get a breath of fresh air . The expression sounded 
(appear in a certain way)

wonderfully 
((used as an intensifier) extremely well)
odd 
(not divisible by two)

, with its suggestion 
(an idea that is suggested)
of sedentary desk-life . I would 
n't have mentioned 
(make reference to)
the fellow to you at all , only it was from 
his lips 
(either of two fleshy folds of tissue that surround the mouth and play a role in speaking)

that I first heard the name of the man who is so indissolubly connected with the 
memories of that time . Moreover 
(in addition; furthermore, their quality is improving"; moreover, mice nested there")

, I respected 
(regard highly; think much of)
the fellow . Yes ; I respected his 
collars 
(a band that fits around the neck and is usually folded over)
, his vast 
cuffs , his brushed hair . His appearance 
(outward or visible aspect of a person or thing)

was certainly 
(definitely or positively (`sure' is sometimes used informally for `surely'))

that of a hairdresser 
(someone who cuts or beautifies hair)
's dummy 
(a person who does not talk)

; but in the great demoralization 
(destroying the moral basis for a doctrine or policy)

of the land he kept up his appearance . That 's backbone 
(a central cohesive source of support and stability)

. His starched collars and got-up shirt-fronts were achievements 
(the action of accomplishing something)

of character 
(an imaginary person represented in a work of fiction (play or film or story))

. He had been out nearly three years ; and , later , I could not help asking 
(inquire about)

him how he managed 
(be successful; achieve a goal)
to sport 
(wear or display in an ostentatious or proud manner)

such linen 
(a fabric woven with fibers from the flax plant)
. He had just the faintest 
(deficient in magnitude; barely perceptible; lacking clarity or brightness or loudness etc)

blush , and said modestly 
(with modesty; in a modest manner)
, 'I 've been teaching 
(impart skills or knowledge to)

one of the native 
(characteristic of or existing by virtue of geographic origin)

women about the station . It was difficult . She had a distaste 
(a feeling of intense dislike)

for the work . ' Thus this man had verily 
(in truth; certainly)
accomplished 
(put in effect)

something . And he was devoted 
(give entirely to a specific person, activity, or cause)

to his books 
(a written work or composition that has been published (printed on pages bound together))

, which were in apple-pie order . `` Everything else in the station was in a muddle 
(a confused multitude of things)

-- heads , things , buildings . Strings 
(the section of an orchestra that plays stringed instruments)

of dusty niggers 
((ethnic slur) extremely offensive name for a Black person)
with 
splay 
(an outward bevel around a door or window that makes it seem larger)
feet 
arrived and departed 
(move away from a place into another direction)
; a stream 
of manufactured 
(put together out of artificial or natural components or parts; He manufactured a popular cereal")

goods 
(benefit)
, rubbishy 
(cheap and inferior; of no value)
cottons 
(soft silky fibers from cotton plants in their raw state)

, beads 
(several beads threaded together on a string)
, and brass-wire sent into 
the depths of darkness , and in return came a precious trickle 
(flowing in drops; the formation and falling of drops of liquid)

of ivory 
(a hard smooth ivory colored dentine that makes up most of the tusks of elephants and walruses)

. `` I had to wait in the station for ten days -- an eternity 
(time without end)

. I lived 
(inhabit or live in; be an inhabitant of)
in a hut in the yard 
(a unit of length equal to 3 feet; defined as 91.44 centimeters; originally taken to be the average length of a stride)

, but to be out of the chaos 
(a state of extreme confusion and disorder)
I would 
sometimes get into the accountant 's office . It was built 
(make by combining materials and parts)

of horizontal 
(parallel to or in the plane of the horizon or a base line)
planks 
(a stout length of sawn timber; made in a wide variety of sizes and used for many purposes)

, and so badly 
(to a severe or serious degree)
put together that , as he bent 
(form a curve)

over his high desk , he was barred 
(prevent from entering; keep out)
from neck 
to heels 
(the bottom of a shoe or boot; the back part of a shoe or boot that touches the ground and provides elevation)

with narrow strips 
(a relatively long narrow piece of something)
of sunlight . 
There was no need to open the big shutter 
(a mechanical device on a camera that opens and closes to control the time of a photographic exposure)

to see . It was hot there , too ; big flies buzzed 
(make a buzzing sound)
fiendishly 
(as a devil; in an evil manner)

, and did not sting 
(cause a sharp or stinging pain or discomfort)
, but stabbed 
(use a knife on)

. I sat generally on the floor , while , of faultless appearance ( and even slightly 
scented 
(cause to smell or be smelly)
) , perching 
(sit, as on a branch)
on a 
high stool 
(a simple seat without a back or arms)
, he wrote , he wrote . Sometimes 
he stood up for exercise 
(the activity of exerting your muscles in various ways to keep fit)

. When a truckle-bed with a sick man ( some invalid 
(having no cogency or legal force)

agent 
(an active and efficient cause; capable of producing a certain effect)
from 
upcountry ) was put in there , he exhibited 
(show an attribute, property, knowledge, or skill)

a gentle annoyance 
(the psychological state of being irritated or annoyed)
. 'The 
groans 
(an utterance expressing pain or disapproval)
of this sick person , ' he 
said , 'distract my attention . And without that it is extremely 
(to a high degree or extent; favorably or with much respect)

difficult to guard against clerical 
(of or relating to clerks)
errors 
(a wrong action attributable to bad judgment or ignorance or inattention)

in this climate . ' `` One day he remarked , without lifting his head , 'In the 
interior 
(situated within or suitable for inside a building)
you will no doubt 
meet Mr . Kurtz . ' On my asking who Mr. Kurtz was , he said he was a first-class 
(very good; of the highest quality)

agent ; and seeing my disappointment 
(a feeling of dissatisfaction that results when your expectations are not realized)

at this information 
(a message received and understood)
, he added 
(make an addition (to); join or combine or unite with others; increase the quality, quantity, size or scope of)

slowly , laying 
(put into a certain place or abstract location)
down his pen , 
'He is a very remarkable 
(unusual or striking)
person . ' Further questions elicited 
(call forth (emotions, feelings, and responses))

from him that Mr. Kurtz was at present in charge of a trading-post , a very important 
one , in the true ivory-country , at 'the very bottom of there . Sends in as much 
ivory as all the others put together ... ' He began to write again . The sick man 
was too ill to groan . The flies buzzed in a great peace 
(the state prevailing during the absence of war)

. `` Suddenly 
(happening unexpectedly)
there was a growing murmur 
(a low continuous indistinct sound; often accompanied by movement of the lips without the production of articulate speech)

of voices 
(the distinctive quality or pitch or condition of a person's speech)

and a great tramping of feet . A caravan 
(a procession (of wagons or mules or camels) traveling together in single file)

had come in . A violent babble of uncouth sounds 
(the particular auditory effect produced by a given cause)

burst out on the other side of the planks . All the carriers 
(someone whose employment involves carrying something)

were speaking together , and in the midst of the uproar 
(a state of commotion and noise and confusion)

the lamentable 
(bad; unfortunate)
voice of the chief agent was heard 'giving it 
up ' tearfully 
(with tears; in a tearful manner)
for the twentieth 
(position 20 in a countable series of things)

time that day ... . He rose slowly . 'What a frightful 
(provoking horror)
row , 
' he said . He crossed 
(travel across or pass over)
the room gently to look at 
the sick man , and returning , said to me , 'He does not hear . ' 'What ! Dead ? 
' I asked , startled . 'No , not yet , ' he answered , with great composure 
(steadiness of mind under stress)

. Then , alluding 
(make a more or less disguised reference to)
with a toss 
(the act of flipping a coin)

of the head to the tumult 
(a state of commotion and noise and confusion)
in the 
station-yard , 'When one has got to make correct 
(free from error; especially conforming to fact or truth)

entries 
(an item inserted in a written record)
, one comes to hate those savages 
-- hate them to the death . ' He remained thoughtful 
(having intellectual depth)

for a moment . 'When you see Mr. Kurtz' he went on , 'tell him from me that everything 
here ' -- he glanced at the deck -- ' is very satisfactory 
(giving satisfaction)

. I do n't like to write to him -- with those messengers of ours you never know 
who may get hold of your letter -- at that Central Station . ' He stared at me for 
a moment with his mild , bulging 
(swell or protrude outwards)
eyes . 'Oh , he will 
go far , very far , ' he began again . 'He will be a somebody in the Administration 
before long . They , above -- the Council in Europe , you know -- mean him to be 
. ' `` He turned to his work . The noise outside had ceased , and presently in going 
out I stopped at the door . In the steady 
(not subject to change or variation especially in behavior)

buzz 
(sound of rapid vibration)
of flies the homeward-bound 
(oriented toward home)

agent was lying finished 
(come or bring to a finish or an end; others finished in over 4 hours")

and insensible 
(incapable of physical sensation)
; the other , bent over his books 
, was making correct entries of perfectly 
(completely and without qualification; used informally as intensifiers)

correct transactions 
(a written account of what transpired at a meeting)
; and 
fifty 
(the cardinal number that is the product of ten and five)
feet below the 
doorstep 
(the sill of a door; a horizontal piece of wood or stone that forms the bottom of a doorway and offers support when passing through a doorway)

I could see the still tree-tops of the grove of death . `` Next 
(immediately following in time or order)

day I left that station at last , with a caravan of sixty 
(the cardinal number that is the product of ten and six)

men , for a two-hundred-mile tramp 
(a disreputable vagrant)
. `` No use telling 
(express in words)

you much about that . Paths , paths 
(a course of conduct)
, everywhere 
(to or in any or all places; (`everyplace' is used informally for `everywhere'))

; a stamped-in network 
(an interconnected system of things or people)
of paths 
spreading 
(distribute or disperse widely)
over the empty land , through the long 
grass , through burnt grass , through thickets 
(a dense growth of bushes)
, down 
and up chilly ravines 
(a deep narrow steep-sided valley (especially one formed by running water))

, up and down stony hills 
(a local and well-defined elevation of the land)
ablaze 
with heat ; and a solitude 
(a state of social isolation)
, a solitude , nobody 
, not a hut . The population had cleared out a long time ago . Well , if a lot of 
mysterious niggers armed 
(prepare oneself for a military confrontation)
with all 
kinds of fearful 
(experiencing or showing fear)
weapons 
(any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting)

suddenly took to travelling 
(the act of going from one place to another)
on the 
road between Deal and Gravesend , catching 
(discover or come upon accidentally, suddenly, or unexpectedly; catch somebody doing something or in a certain state)

the yokels 
(a person who is not very intelligent or interested in culture)
right 
and left to carry heavy loads 
(a large number or amount)
for them , I fancy every 
farm 
(workplace consisting of farm buildings and cultivated land as a unit)
and 
cottage 
(a small house with a single story)
thereabouts would get empty very soon 
. Only here the dwellings 
(housing that someone is living in)
were gone , too . 
Still I passed through several abandoned 
(forsake, leave behind)
villages 
(a community of people smaller than a town)

. There 's something pathetically 
(in a manner arousing sympathy and compassion)

childish 
(indicating a lack of maturity)
in the ruins 
(an irrecoverable state of devastation and destruction)

of grass walls . Day after day , with the stamp 
(the distinctive form in which a thing is made)

and shuffle 
(the act of mixing cards haphazardly)
of sixty pair of bare feet behind 
me , each pair under a 60-lb . load 
(weight to be borne or conveyed)
. Camp , cook 
(prepare a hot meal)

, sleep , strike camp , march . Now and then a carrier 
(someone whose employment involves carrying something)

dead in harness 
(a support consisting of an arrangement of straps for holding something to the body (especially one supporting a person suspended from a parachute))

, at rest in the long grass near the path , with an empty water-gourd and his long 
staff 
(personnel who assist their superior in carrying out an assigned task)
lying 
by his side . A great silence around and above . Perhaps 
(by chance)
on some quiet 
night the tremor 
(an involuntary vibration (as if from illness or fear))
of far-off 
(very far away in space or time)

drums 
(a musical percussion instrument; usually consists of a hollow cylinder with a membrane stretched across each end)

, sinking 
(fall or descend to a lower place or level)
, swelling 
(increase in size, magnitude, number, or intensity)

, a tremor vast , faint 
(a spontaneous loss of consciousness caused by insufficient blood to the brain)

; a sound weird , appealing 
(take a court case to a higher court for review)
, 
suggestive 
(tending to suggest or imply)
, and wild -- and perhaps with as profound 
a meaning as the sound of bells 
(a hollow device made of metal that makes a ringing sound when struck)

in a Christian 
(relating to or characteristic of Christianity)
country . Once a 
white man in an unbuttoned 
(undo the buttons of)
uniform , camping 
(live in or as if in a tent)

on the path with an armed escort 
(someone who escorts and protects a prominent person)

of lank Zanzibaris , very hospitable 
(favorable to life and growth)
and festive 
(offering fun and gaiety)

-- not to say drunk 
(a chronic drinker)
. Was looking after the upkeep 
(activity involved in maintaining something in good working order)

of the road , he declared 
(state emphatically and authoritatively)
. Ca n't say 
I saw any road or any upkeep , unless the body of a middle-aged 
(being roughly between 45 and 65 years old)

negro 
(a person with dark skin who comes from Africa (or whose ancestors came from Africa))

, with a bullet-hole in the forehead , upon which I absolutely 
(completely and without qualification; used informally as intensifiers)

stumbled 
(walk unsteadily)
three miles farther on , may be considered 
(deem to be)

as a permanent 
(a series of waves in the hair made by applying heat and chemicals)

improvement 
(a change for the better; progress in development)
. I had a white 
companion 
(a friend who is frequently in the company of another)
, too , not a 
bad chap , but rather too fleshy 
(usually describes a large person who is fat but has a large frame to carry it)

and with the exasperating 
(exasperate or irritate)
habit 
(an established custom)

of fainting 
(pass out from weakness, physical or emotional distress due to a loss of blood supply to the brain)

on the hot hillsides 
(the side or slope of a hill)
, miles away from the least 
bit of shade and water . Annoying , you know , to hold your own coat like a parasol 
over a man 's head while he is coming to . I could n't help asking him once what 
he meant by coming there at all . 'To make money , of course . What do you think 
? ' he said , scornfully 
(without respect; in a disdainful manner)
. Then he got 
fever , and had to be carried in a hammock 
(a small natural hill)
slung under a 
pole 
(a long (usually round) rod of wood or metal or plastic)
. As he weighed 
(have a certain weight)

sixteen stone 
(a lump or mass of hard consolidated mineral matter)
I had no end 
of rows 
(an arrangement of objects or people side by side in a line)
with the carriers 
. They jibbed 
(refuse to comply)
, ran away , sneaked 
(to go stealthily or furtively)

off with their loads in the night -- quite a mutiny 
(open rebellion against constituted authority (especially by seamen or soldiers against their officers))

. So , one evening , I made a speech in English with gestures 
(motion of hands or body to emphasize or help to express a thought or feeling)

, not one of which was lost to the sixty pairs 
(a set of two similar things considered as a unit)

of eyes before me , and the next morning I started the hammock off in front all 
right . An hour afterwards I came upon the whole concern wrecked 
(smash or break forcefully)

in a bush -- man , hammock , groans , blankets 
(bedding that keeps a person warm in bed)

, horrors 
(intense and profound fear)
. The heavy pole had skinned 
(climb awkwardly, as if by scrambling)

his poor nose . He was very anxious for me to kill somebody , but there was n't 
the shadow of a carrier near . I remembered the old doctor -- 'It would be interesting 
(arousing or holding the attention)

for science to watch the mental changes of individuals , on the spot . ' I felt 
I was becoming 
(enter or assume a certain state or condition)
scientifically 
(with respect to science; in a scientific way)

interesting . However , all that is to no purpose . On the fifteenth 
(position 15 in a countable series of things)

day I came in sight of the big river again , and hobbled 
(walk impeded by some physical limitation or injury)

into the Central Station . It was on a back water surrounded 
(extend on all sides of simultaneously; encircle)

by scrub 
(dense vegetation consisting of stunted trees or bushes)
and forest , 
with a pretty border 
(a line that indicates a boundary)
of smelly mud on one side 
, and on the three others enclosed 
(enclose or enfold completely with or as if with a covering)

by a crazy fence 
(a barrier that serves to enclose an area)
of rushes 
(the act of moving hurriedly and in a careless manner)

. A neglected 
(leave undone or leave out)
gap 
(a conspicuous disparity or difference as between two figures)

was all the gate 
(a movable barrier in a fence or wall)
it had , and the first 
glance at the place was enough to let you see the flabby devil was running that 
show . White men with long staves 
((music) the system of five horizontal lines on which the musical notes are written)

in their hands appeared languidly 
(in a languid and lethargic manner)
from amongst 
the buildings , strolling 
(walk leisurely and with no apparent aim)
up to take 
a look at me , and then retired 
(go into retirement; stop performing one's work or withdraw from one's position)

out of sight somewhere . One of them , a stout 
(a strong very dark heavy-bodied ale made from pale malt and roasted unmalted barley and (often) caramel malt with hops)

, excitable 
(easily excited)
chap with black moustaches 
(an unshaved growth of hair on the upper lip)

, informed 
(impart knowledge of some fact, state or affairs, or event to)
me with 
great volubility 
(the quality of being facile in speech and writing)
and many digressions 
(a message that departs from the main subject)

, as soon as I told him who I was , that my steamer was at the bottom of the river 
. I was thunderstruck . What , how , why ? Oh , it was 'all right . ' The 'manager 
himself ' was there . All quite correct . 'Everybody had behaved 
(behave in a certain manner; show a certain behavior; conduct or comport oneself)

splendidly 
(extremely well)
! splendidly ! ' -- 'you must , ' he said in agitation 
(a mental state of extreme emotional disturbance)

, 'go and see the general manager 
(someone who controls resources and expenditures)

at once . He is waiting ! ' `` I did not see the real significance 
(the quality of being significant)

of that wreck 
(something or someone that has suffered ruin or dilapidation)
at 
once . I fancy I see it now , but I am not sure -- not at all . Certainly 
(definitely or positively (`sure' is sometimes used informally for `surely'))

the affair was too stupid -- when I think of it -- to be altogether natural . Still 
... But at the moment it presented 
(give an exhibition of to an interested audience)

itself simply as a confounded nuisance 
((law) a broad legal concept including anything that disturbs the reasonable use of your property or endangers life and health or is offensive)

. The steamer was sunk . They had started two days before in a sudden hurry up the 
river with the manager on board , in charge of some volunteer 
((military) a person who freely enlists for service)

skipper , and before they had been out three hours they tore the bottom out of her 
on stones 
(a lump or mass of hard consolidated mineral matter)
, and she sank near 
the south 
(the region of the United States lying to the south of the Mason-Dixon line)

bank 
(sloping land (especially the slope beside a body of water))
. I asked myself 
what I was to do there , now my boat was lost . As a matter of fact , I had plenty 
to do in fishing 
(the act of someone who fishes as a diversion)
my command 
(an authoritative direction or instruction to do something)

out of the river . I had to set about it the very next day . That , and the repairs 
(the act of putting something in working order again)

when I brought the pieces to the station , took some months . `` My first interview 
(the questioning of a person (or a conversation in which information is elicited); often conducted by journalists)

with the manager was curious 
(beyond or deviating from the usual or expected)
. 
He did not ask me to sit down after my twenty-mile walk that morning . He was commonplace 
in complexion , in features 
(a prominent attribute or aspect of something)
, in 
manners 
(social deportment)
, and in voice . He was of middle size 
(the physical magnitude of something (how big it is))

and of ordinary 
(not exceptional in any way especially in quality or ability or size or degree)

build . His eyes , of the usual blue , were perhaps remarkably 
(to a remarkable degree or extent)

cold , and he certainly could make his glance fall on one as trenchant 
(having keenness and forcefulness and penetration in thought, expression, or intellect)

and heavy as an axe 
(an edge tool with a heavy bladed head mounted across a handle)

. But even at these times the rest of his person seemed to disclaim 
(renounce a legal claim or title to)

the intention 
(an anticipated outcome that is intended or that guides your planned actions)

. Otherwise there was only an indefinable 
(not capable of being precisely or readily described; not easily put into words)

, faint expression of his lips , something stealthy -- a smile -- not a smile -- 
I remember it , but I ca n't explain . It was unconscious 
(not conscious; lacking awareness and the capacity for sensory perception as if asleep or dead)

, this smile was , though just after he had said something it got intensified 
(increase in extent or intensity)

for an instant 
(occurring with no delay)
. It came at the end of his speeches 
(the act of delivering a formal spoken communication to an audience)

like a seal 
(fastener consisting of a resinous composition that is plastic when warm; used for sealing documents and parcels and letters)

applied 
(put into service; make work or employ for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose)

on the words to make the meaning of the commonest 
(belonging to or participated in by a community as a whole; public)

phrase appear absolutely inscrutable . He was a common 
(belonging to or participated in by a community as a whole; public)

trader , from his youth 
(a young person (especially a young man or boy))
up employed 
(put into service; make work or employ for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose)

in these parts 
(the local environment)
-- nothing more . He was obeyed 
(be obedient to)

, yet he inspired 
(heighten or intensify)
neither love nor fear , nor even respect 
((usually preceded by `in') a detail or point)

. He inspired uneasiness 
(feelings of anxiety that make you tense and irritable)

. That was it ! Uneasiness . Not a definite mistrust 
(doubt about someone's honesty)

-- just uneasiness -- nothing more . You have no idea how effective 
(producing or capable of producing an intended result or having a striking effect)

such a ... a ... faculty 
(one of the inherent cognitive or perceptual powers of the mind)

can be . He had no genius 
(someone who has exceptional intellectual ability and originality)

for organizing , for initiative 
(serving to set in motion)
, or for order even 
. That was evident 
(clearly revealed to the mind or the senses or judgment)
in 
such things as the deplorable 
(bad; unfortunate)
state of the station . He had 
no learning 
(the cognitive process of acquiring skill or knowledge)
, and no intelligence 
(the ability to comprehend; to understand and profit from experience)

. His position had come to him -- why ? Perhaps because he was never ill ... He 
had served three terms 
(status with respect to the relations between people or groups)

of three years out there ... Because triumphant health 
(a healthy state of wellbeing free from disease)

in the general rout 
(a disorderly crowd of people)
of constitutions 
(law determining the fundamental political principles of a government)

is a kind of power in itself . When he went home on leave he rioted 
(take part in a riot; disturb the public peace by engaging in a riot)

on a large scale -- pompously 
(in a pompous manner)
. Jack ashore -- with a difference 
(the quality of being unlike or dissimilar)

-- in externals 
(outward features)
only . This one could gather 
(assemble or get together)

from his casual talk . He originated 
(come into existence; take on form or shape)

nothing , he could keep the routine 
(an unvarying or habitual method or procedure)

going -- that 's all . But he was great . He was great by this little thing that 
it was impossible to tell what could control such a man . He never gave that secret 
away . Perhaps there was nothing within him . Such 
(of so extreme a degree or extent)

a suspicion 
(an impression that something might be the case)
made one pause -- 
for out there there were no external 
(happening or arising or located outside or beyond some limits or especially surface)

checks 
(a written order directing a bank to pay money)
. Once when various tropical 
(relating to or situated in or characteristic of the tropics (the region on either side of the equator))

diseases 
(an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning)
had laid 
(put into a certain place or abstract location)

low almost every 'agent ' in the station , he was heard to say , 'Men who come out 
here should have no entrails 
(internal organs collectively (especially those in the abdominal cavity))

. ' He sealed 
(make tight; secure against leakage)
the utterance 
(the use of uttered sounds for auditory communication)

with that smile of his , as though it had been a door opening 
(cause to open or to become open)

into a darkness he had in his keeping . You fancied 
(imagine; conceive of; see in one's mind)

you had seen things -- but the seal was on . When annoyed at meal-times by the constant 
(unvarying in nature)

quarrels 
(an angry dispute)
of the white men about precedence 
(status established in order of importance or urgency)

, he ordered an immense round table to be made , for which a special house had to 
be built . This was the station 's mess-room . Where he sat was the first place 
-- the rest were nowhere 
(not anywhere; in or at or to no place)
. One felt this 
to be his unalterable 
(not capable of being changed or altered)
conviction 
(an unshakable belief in something without need for proof or evidence)

. He was neither civil 
(applying to ordinary citizens as contrasted with the military)

nor uncivil 
(lacking civility or good manners)
. He was quiet . He allowed his 
'boy ' -- an overfed 
(too well nourished)
young negro from the coast -- to treat 
(interact in a certain way)

the white men , under his very eyes , with provoking insolence 
(the trait of being rude and impertinent; inclined to take liberties)

. `` He began to speak as soon as he saw me . I had been very long on the road . 
He could not wait . Had to start without me . The up-river stations 
((Roman Catholic Church) a devotion consisting of fourteen prayers said before a series of fourteen pictures or carvings representing successive incidents during Jesus' passage from Pilate's house to his crucifixion at Calvary)

had to be relieved 
(provide physical relief, as from pain)
. There had been so 
many delays 
(time during which some action is awaited)
already that he did not 
know who was dead and who was alive 
(possessing life)
, and how they got on -- 
and so on , and so on . He paid 
(give money, usually in exchange for goods or services)

no attention to my explanations 
(a statement that makes something comprehensible by describing the relevant structure or operation or circumstances etc.)

, and , playing 
(the act of playing a musical instrument)
with a stick of sealing-wax 
, repeated 
(to say, state, or perform again)
several times that the situation was 
'very grave 
(death of a person)
, very grave . ' There were rumours 
(gossip (usually a mixture of truth and untruth) passed around by word of mouth)

that a very important station was in jeopardy 
(a source of danger; a possibility of incurring loss or misfortune)

, and its chief , Mr. Kurtz , was ill. Hoped it was not true . Mr. Kurtz was ... 
I felt weary and irritable 
(easily irritated or annoyed)
. Hang Kurtz , I thought 
. I interrupted him by saying I had heard of Mr. Kurtz on the coast . 'Ah ! So they 
talk of him down there , ' he murmured to himself . Then he began again , assuring 
me Mr. Kurtz was the best agent he had , an exceptional man , of the greatest importance 
(the quality of being important and worthy of note)

to the Company ; therefore I could understand his anxiety 
((psychiatry) a relatively permanent state of worry and nervousness occurring in a variety of mental disorders, usually accompanied by compulsive behavior or attacks of panic)

. He was , he said , 'very , very uneasy . ' Certainly he fidgeted 
(move restlessly)

on his chair a good deal , exclaimed , 'Ah , Mr . Kurtz ! ' broke the stick of sealing-wax 
and seemed dumfounded by the accident . Next thing he wanted to know 'how long it 
would take to ' ... I interrupted him again . Being 
(have the quality of being; (copula, used with an adjective or a predicate noun))

hungry , you know , and kept on my feet too . I was getting savage . 'How can I 
tell ? ' I said . 'I have n't even seen the wreck yet -- some months , no doubt 
. ' All this talk seemed to me so futile . 'Some months , ' he said . 'Well , let 
us say three months before we can make a start . Yes . That ought to do the affair 
. ' I flung out of his hut ( he lived all alone in a clay 
(a very fine-grained soil that is plastic when moist but hard when fired)

hut with a sort of verandah 
(a porch along the outside of a building (sometimes partly enclosed))

) muttering 
(talk indistinctly; usually in a low voice)
to myself my opinion 
(a personal belief or judgment that is not founded on proof or certainty)

of him . He was a chattering 
(the rapid series of noises made by the parts of a machine)

idiot 
(a person of subnormal intelligence)
. Afterwards I took it back when it 
was borne in upon me startlingly 
(in a startling manner)
with what extreme 
(the furthest or highest degree of something)

nicety 
(conformity with some esthetic standard of correctness or propriety)
he 
had estimated 
(judge tentatively or form an estimate of (quantities or time))
the 
time requisite 
(anything indispensable)
for the 'affair . ' `` I went to work the 
next day , turning 
(change orientation or direction, also in the abstract sense)

, so to speak , my back on that station . In that way only it seemed to me I could 
keep my hold on the redeeming facts of life . Still , one must look about sometimes 
; and then I saw this station , these men strolling aimlessly 
(without aim; in an aimless manner)

about in the sunshine of the yard . I asked myself sometimes what it all meant . 
They wandered 
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or employment)

here and there with their absurd 
(inconsistent with reason or logic or common sense)

long staves in their hands , like a lot of faithless pilgrims 
(someone who journeys in foreign lands)

bewitched 
(attract; cause to be enamored)
inside a rotten fence . The word 'ivory' 
rang in the air , was whispered 
(speak softly; in a low voice)
, was sighed 
(heave or utter a sigh; breathe deeply and heavily)

. You would think they were praying 
(address a deity, a prophet, a saint or an object of worship; say a prayer)

to it . A taint 
(the state of being contaminated)
of imbecile 
(a person of subnormal intelligence)

rapacity 
(extreme gluttony)
blew through it all , like a whiff 
(a short light gust of air)

from some corpse 
(the dead body of a human being)
. By Jove ! I 've never seen 
anything so unreal 
(lacking in reality or substance or genuineness; not corresponding to acknowledged facts or criteria)

in my life . And outside , the silent wilderness surrounding 
(extend on all sides of simultaneously; encircle)

this cleared speck on the earth struck me as something great and invincible 
(incapable of being overcome or subdued)

, like evil 
(morally objectionable behavior)
or truth , waiting patiently for the 
passing 
(go across or through)
away of this fantastic 
(ludicrously odd)
invasion 
(the act of invading; the act of an army that invades for conquest or plunder)

. `` Oh , these months ! Well , never mind . Various 
(of many different kinds purposefully arranged but lacking any uniformity)

things happened . One evening a grass shed full of calico 
(coarse cloth with a bright print)

, cotton 
(soft silky fibers from cotton plants in their raw state)
prints 
(the text appearing in a book, newspaper, or other printed publication)

, beads , and I don't know what else , burst into a blaze so suddenly that you would 
have thought the earth had opened to let an avenging fire consume all that trash 
(worthless material that is to be disposed of)

. I was smoking 
(inhale and exhale smoke from cigarettes, cigars, pipes)
my pipe 
(a tube with a small bowl at one end; used for smoking tobacco)

quietly by my dismantled 
(tear down so as to make flat with the ground)
steamer 
, and saw them all cutting 
(separate with or as if with an instrument)
capers 
(any of numerous plants of the genus Capparis)

in the light , with their arms lifted high , when the stout man with moustaches 
came tearing down to the river , a tin pail 
(a roughly cylindrical vessel that is open at the top)

in his hand , assured me that everybody was 'behaving splendidly , splendidly , 
' dipped 
(immerse briefly into a liquid so as to wet, coat, or saturate)
about 
a quart 
(a United States liquid unit equal to 32 fluid ounces; four quarts equal one gallon)

of water and tore back again . I noticed 
(discover or determine the existence, presence, or fact of)

there was a hole in the bottom of his pail . `` I strolled up . There was no hurry 
. You see the thing had gone off like a box of matches 
(lighter consisting of a thin piece of wood or cardboard tipped with combustible chemical; ignites with friction)

. It had been hopeless 
(without hope because there seems to be no possibility of comfort or success)

from the very first . The flame had leaped 
(move forward by leaps and bounds)
high 
, driven everybody back , lighted 
(make lighter or brighter)
up everything -- and 
collapsed 
(break down, literally or metaphorically)
. The shed was already a heap 
(a collection of objects laid on top of each other)

of embers 
(a hot fragment of wood or coal that is left from a fire and is glowing or smoldering)

glowing fiercely 
(in a physically fierce manner)
. A nigger was being beaten 
(come out better in a competition, race, or conflict)

near by . They said he had caused 
(give rise to; cause to happen or occur, not always intentionally)

the fire in some way ; be that as it may , he was screeching 
(make a high-pitched, screeching noise)

most horribly 
(of a dreadful kind)
. I saw him , later , for several days , sitting 
(be seated)

in a bit of shade looking very sick and trying 
(make an effort or attempt)
to recover 
himself ; afterwards he arose and went out -- and the wilderness without a sound 
took him into its bosom 
(the chest considered as the place where secret thoughts are kept)

again . As I approached 
(move towards)
the glow from the dark I found myself at 
the back of two men , talking . I heard the name of Kurtz pronounced 
(speak, pronounce, or utter in a certain way)

, then the words , 'take advantage 
(the quality of having a superior or more favorable position)

of this unfortunate 
(a person who suffers misfortune)
accident . ' One of the men 
was the manager . I wished 
(hope for; have a wish)
him a good evening . 'Did you 
ever see anything like it -- eh ? it is incredible 
(beyond belief or understanding)

, ' he said , and walked off . The other man remained . He was a first-class agent 
, young , gentlemanly , a bit reserved 
(hold back or set aside, especially for future use or contingency)

, with a forked 
(lift with a pitchfork)
little beard 
(the hair growing on the lower part of a man's face)

and a hooked 
(curved down like an eagle's beak)
nose . He was stand-offish with 
the other agents 
(an active and efficient cause; capable of producing a certain effect)

, and they on their side said he was the manager 's spy 
((military) a secret agent hired by a state to obtain information about its enemies or by a business to obtain industrial secrets from competitors)

upon them . As to me , I had hardly 
(only a very short time before)
ever spoken 
(express in speech)

to him before . We got into talk , and by and by we strolled away from the hissing 
(a fricative sound (especially as an expression of disapproval))

ruins . Then he asked me to his room , which was in the main building of the station 
. He struck a match , and I perceived 
(to become aware of through the senses)
that 
this young aristocrat 
(a member of the aristocracy)
had not only a silver-mounted 
dressing-case but also a whole candle 
(stick of wax with a wick in the middle)

all to himself . Just 
(and nothing more)
at that time the manager was the only 
man supposed 
(express a supposition)
to have any right to candles 
(stick of wax with a wick in the middle)

. Native 
(characteristic of or existing by virtue of geographic origin)
mats 
(a thick flat pad used as a floor covering)

covered 
(provide with a covering or cause to be covered)
the clay walls ; a collection 
(several things grouped together or considered as a whole)

of spears 
(a long pointed rod used as a tool or weapon)
, assegais 
(the slender spear of the Bantu-speaking people of Africa)

, shields 
(a protective covering or structure)
, knives 
(edge tool used as a cutting instrument; has a pointed blade with a sharp edge and a handle)

was hung up in trophies 
(an award for success in war or hunting)
. The business 
intrusted 
(confer a trust upon)
to this fellow was the making of bricks 
(rectangular block of clay baked by the sun or in a kiln; used as a building or paving material)

-- so I had been informed ; but there was n't a fragment 
(a piece broken off or cut off of something else)

of a brick 
(rectangular block of clay baked by the sun or in a kiln; used as a building or paving material)

anywhere 
(at or in or to any place; (`anyplace' is used informally for `anywhere'))

in the station , and he had been there more than a year -- waiting . It seems 
(give a certain impression or have a certain outward aspect)

he could not make bricks without something , I do n't know what -- straw 
(cover or provide with or as if with straw)

maybe . Anyway , it could not be found there and as it was not likely 
(has a good chance of being the case or of coming about)

to be sent from Europe , it did not appear clear to me what he was waiting for . 
An act of special creation perhaps . However , they were all waiting -- all the 
sixteen or twenty pilgrims of them -- for something ; and upon my word it did not 
seem an uncongenial occupation 
(the principal activity in your life that you do to earn money)

, from the way they took it , though the only thing that ever came to them was disease 
-- as far as I could see . They beguiled 
(influence by slyness)
the time by back-biting 
and intriguing 
(disturbingly provocative)
against each other in a foolish kind 
of way . There was an air of plotting 
(plan secretly, usually something illegal)

about that station , but nothing came of it , of course . It was as unreal as everything 
else -- as the philanthropic pretence of the whole concern , as their talk , as 
their government , as their show of work . The only real feeling was a desire to 
get appointed to a trading-post where ivory was to be had , so that they could earn 
percentages 
(a proportion in relation to a whole (which is usually the amount per hundred))

. They intrigued 
(cause to be interested or curious)
and slandered 
(charge falsely or with malicious intent; attack the good name and reputation of someone)

and hated 
(dislike intensely; feel antipathy or aversion towards)
each other only 
on that account -- but as to effectually 
(in an effectual manner)
lifting a little 
finger -- oh , no . By heavens ! there is something after all in the world allowing 
(make it possible through a specific action or lack of action for something to happen)

one man to steal 
(take without the owner's consent)
a horse while another must 
not look at a halter 
(rope or canvas headgear for a horse, with a rope for leading)

. Steal a horse straight out . Very well . He has done it . Perhaps he can ride 
. But there is a way of looking at a halter that would provoke 
(call forth (emotions, feelings, and responses))

the most charitable 
(relating to or characterized by charity)
of saints 
(a person who has died and has been declared a saint by canonization)

into a kick . `` I had no idea why he wanted to be sociable 
(inclined to or conducive to companionship with others)

, but as we chatted 
(talk socially without exchanging too much information)
in 
there it suddenly occurred 
(come to pass)
to me the fellow was trying to get at 
something -- in fact , pumping 
(operate like a pump; move up and down, like a handle or a pedal)

me . He alluded 
(make a more or less disguised reference to)
constantly 
(without variation or change, in every case)

to Europe , to the people I was supposed to know there -- putting 
(put into a certain place or abstract location)

leading questions as to my acquaintances 
(personal knowledge or information about someone or something)

in the sepulchral 
(of or relating to a sepulchre)
city , and so on . His little 
eyes glittered 
(be shiny, as if wet)
like mica 
(any of various minerals consisting of hydrous silicates of aluminum or potassium etc. that crystallize in forms that allow perfect cleavage into very thin leaves; used as dielectrics because of their resistance to electricity)

discs 
(sound recording consisting of a disk with a continuous groove; used to reproduce music by rotating while a phonograph needle tracks in the groove)

-- with curiosity 
(a state in which you want to learn more about something)
-- 
though he tried to keep up a bit of superciliousness 
(the trait of displaying arrogance by patronizing those considered inferior)

. At first I was astonished 
(affect with wonder)
, but very soon I became awfully 
(used as intensifiers)

curious to see what he would find out from me . I couldn't possibly 
(by chance)

imagine what I had in me to make it worth his while . It was very pretty to see 
how he baffled 
(be a mystery or bewildering to)
himself , for in truth my body 
was full only of chills 
(coldness due to a cold environment)
, and my head had 
nothing in it but that wretched 
(of very poor quality or condition)
steamboat 
(a boat propelled by a steam engine)

business . It was evident he took me for a perfectly shameless prevaricator 
(a person who has lied or who lies repeatedly)

. At last he got angry , and , to conceal 
(prevent from being seen or discovered)

a movement of furious 
(marked by extreme and violent energy)
annoyance , he yawned 
(utter a yawn, as from lack of oxygen or when one is tired)

. I rose . Then I noticed a small sketch 
(preliminary drawing for later elaboration)

in oils 
(a slippery or viscous liquid or liquefiable substance not miscible with water)

, on a panel 
(sheet that forms a distinct (usually flat and rectangular) section or component of something)

, representing 
(take the place of or be parallel or equivalent to)
a woman , draped 
(arrange in a particular way)

and blindfolded 
(cover the eyes of (someone) to prevent him from seeing)
, carrying 
a lighted torch . The background was sombre -- almost black . The movement of the 
woman was stately , and the effect of the torchlight 
(light from a torch or torches)

on the face was sinister . `` It arrested 
(take into custody)
me , and he stood 
by civilly 
(in a civil manner)
, holding an empty half-pint 
(disparaging terms for small people)

champagne 
(a white sparkling wine either produced in Champagne or resembling that produced there)

bottle ( medical 
(relating to the study or practice of medicine)
comforts 
(things that make you comfortable and at ease)

) with the candle stuck in it . To my question he said Mr. Kurtz had painted 
(make a painting)

this -- in this very station more than a year ago -- while waiting for means to 
go to his trading post . 'Tell me , pray 
(address a deity, a prophet, a saint or an object of worship; say a prayer)

, ' said I , 'who is this Mr . Kurtz ? ' `` 'The chief of the Inner Station , ' 
he answered in a short tone , looking away . 'Much obliged 
(under a moral obligation to do something)

, ' I said , laughing 
(showing or feeling mirth or pleasure or happiness)
. 'And 
you are the brickmaker of the Central Station . Every one knows that . ' He was 
silent for a while . 'He is a prodigy 
(an unusually gifted or intelligent (young) person; someone whose talents excite wonder and admiration)

, ' he said at last . 'He is an emissary of pity 
(a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others)

and science and progress , and devil knows what else . We want , ' he began to declaim 
(recite in elocution)

suddenly , 'for the guidance 
(something that provides direction or advice as to a decision or course of action)

of the cause intrusted to us by Europe , so to speak , higher intelligence , wide 
sympathies 
(an inclination to support or be loyal to or to agree with an opinion)

, a singleness 
(without hypocrisy)
of purpose . ' 'Who says 
(express in words)

that ? ' I asked . 'Lots of them , ' he replied 
(react verbally)
. 'Some even write 
that ; and so _he_ comes here , a special being , as you ought to know . ' 'Why 
ought I to know ? ' I interrupted , really surprised . He paid no attention . 'Yes 
. Today 
(the present time or age)
he is chief of the best station , next year he 
will be assistant-manager , two years more and ... but I dare-say you know what 
he will be in two years ' time . You are of the new gang 
(an association of criminals)

-- the gang of virtue 
(the quality of doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong)

. The same people who sent him specially also recommended 
(push for something)

you . Oh , do n't say no . I 've my own eyes to trust . ' Light dawned 
(become clear or enter one's consciousness or emotions)

upon me . My dear aunt 's influential 
(having or exercising influence or power)

acquaintances were producing 
(bring forth or yield)
an unexpected effect upon that 
young man . I nearly burst into a laugh . 'Do you read the Company 's confidential 
(entrusted with private information and the confidence of another)

correspondence 
(communication by the exchange of letters)
? ' I asked . He had 
n't a word to say . It was great fun . 'When Mr. Kurtz , ' I continued , severely 
(to a severe or serious degree)

, 'is General Manager , you wo n't have the opportunity . ' `` He blew the candle 
out suddenly , and we went outside . The moon 
(the natural satellite of the Earth)

had risen 
(move upward)
. Black figures 
(a diagram or picture illustrating textual material)

strolled about listlessly 
(in a listless manner)
, pouring 
(cause to run)
water 
on the glow , whence proceeded 
(continue talking)
a sound of hissing ; steam ascended 
(travel up, "We ascended the mountain")

in the moonlight 
(the light of the Moon)
, the beaten nigger groaned 
(indicate pain, discomfort, or displeasure)

somewhere . 'What a row the brute makes ! ' said the indefatigable 
(showing sustained enthusiastic action with unflagging vitality)

man with the moustaches , appearing 
(give a certain impression or have a certain outward aspect)

near us . 'Serve him right . Transgression -- punishment 
(the act of punishing)

-- bang 
(a vigorous blow)
! Pitiless , pitiless . That 's the only way . This will 
prevent 
(keep from happening or arising; make impossible)
all conflagrations 
(a very intense and uncontrolled fire)

for the future 
(the time yet to come)
. I was just telling the manager ... ' He 
noticed my companion , and became crestfallen all at once . 'Not in bed yet , ' 
he said , with a kind of servile 
(submissive or fawning in attitude or behavior)

heartiness 
(active strength of body or mind)
; 'it 's so natural . Ha ! Danger 
-- agitation . ' He vanished . I went on to the riverside 
(the bank of a river)

, and the other followed me . I heard a scathing murmur at my ear , 'Heap of muffs 
(a warm tubular covering for the hands)

-- go to . ' The pilgrims could be seen in knots gesticulating 
(show, express or direct through movement)

, discussing 
(to consider or examine in speech or writing)
. Several 
((used with count nouns) of an indefinite number more than 2 or 3 but not many)

had still their staves in their hands . I verily believe they took these sticks 
(an implement consisting of a length of wood)

to bed with them . Beyond the fence the forest stood up spectrally in the moonlight 
, and through that dim stir , through the faint sounds of that lamentable courtyard 
(an area wholly or partly surrounded by walls or buildings)

, the silence of the land went home to one 's very heart -- its mystery , its greatness 
, the amazing reality of its concealed 
(prevent from being seen or discovered)

life . The hurt nigger moaned 
(indicate pain, discomfort, or displeasure)
feebly 
somewhere near by , and then fetched 
(go or come after and bring or take back)

a deep sigh that made me mend my pace away from there . I felt a hand introducing 
itself under my arm . 'My dear sir , ' said the fellow , 'I do n't want to be misunderstood 
(interpret in the wrong way)

, and especially by you , who will see Mr. Kurtz long before I can have that pleasure 
. I would n't like him to get a false idea of my disposition 
(your usual mood)

... .' '' I let him run on , this _papier-mache_ Mephistopheles , and it seemed 
to me that if I tried I could poke my forefinger through him , and would find nothing 
inside but a little loose dirt 
(the part of the earth's surface consisting of humus and disintegrated rock)

, maybe . He , do n't you see , had been planning 
(have the will and intention to carry out some action)

to be assistant-manager by and by under the present man , and I could see that the 
coming of that Kurtz had upset 
(disturb the balance or stability of)
them both 
not a little . He talked precipitately 
(at breakneck speed)
, and I did not try 
to stop him . I had my shoulders 
(the part of the body between the neck and the upper arm)

against the wreck of my steamer , hauled 
(draw slowly or heavily)
up on the slope 
like a carcass of some big river animal . The smell of mud , of primeval mud , by 
Jove ! was in my nostrils , the high stillness of primeval forest was before my 
eyes ; there were shiny patches 
(a small contrasting part of something)
on the 
black creek 
(a natural stream of water smaller than a river (and often a tributary of a river))

. The moon had spread over everything a thin layer 
(single thickness of usually some homogeneous substance)

of silver 
(a soft white precious univalent metallic element having the highest electrical and thermal conductivity of any metal; occurs in argentite and in free form; used in coins and jewelry and tableware and photography)

-- over the rank 
(a row or line of people (especially soldiers or police) standing abreast of one another)

grass , over the mud , upon the wall of matted 
(twist together or entwine into a confusing mass)

vegetation 
(all the plant life in a particular region or period)
standing higher 
than the wall of a temple 
(place of worship consisting of an edifice for the worship of a deity)

, over the great river I could see through a sombre gap glittering 
(be shiny, as if wet)

, glittering , as it flowed 
(move or progress freely as if in a stream)
broadly 
(without regard to specific details or exceptions)

by without a murmur . All this was great , expectant 
(marked by eager anticipation)

, mute , while the man jabbered 
(talk in a noisy, excited, or declamatory manner)

about himself . I wondered 
(have a wish or desire to know something)
whether the 
stillness on the face of the immensity looking at us two were meant as an appeal 
(earnest or urgent request)

or as a menace 
(something that is a source of danger)
. What were we who had strayed 
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or employment)

in here ? Could we handle that dumb thing , or would it handle us ? I felt how big 
, how confoundedly 
(in a perplexed manner)
big , was that thing that could n't 
talk , and perhaps was deaf 
(lacking or deprived of the sense of hearing wholly or in part)

as well . What was in there ? I could see a little ivory coming out from there , 
and I had heard Mr. Kurtz was in there . I had heard enough about it , too -- God 
knows ! Yet 
(up to the present time)
somehow it did n't bring any image 
(an iconic mental representation)

with it -- no more than if I had been told an angel 
(spiritual being attendant upon God)

or a fiend 
(a cruel wicked and inhuman person)
was in there . I believed it in 
the same way one of you might believe there are inhabitants 
(a person who inhabits a particular place)

in the planet 
((astronomy) any of the nine large celestial bodies in the solar system that revolve around the sun and shine by reflected light; Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto in order of their proximity to the sun; viewed from the constellation Hercules, all the planets rotate around the sun in a counterclockwise direction)

Mars 
(a small reddish planet that is the 4th from the sun and is periodically visible to the naked eye; minerals rich in iron cover its surface and are responsible for its characteristic color)

. I knew once a Scotch sailmaker 
(a maker of sails)
who was certain , dead sure 
, there were people in Mars . If you asked him for some idea how they looked and 
behaved , he would get shy 
(lacking self-confidence)
and mutter something about 
'walking on all-fours . ' If you as much as smiled , he would -- though a man of 
sixty -- offer to fight you . I would not have gone so far as to fight for Kurtz 
, but I went for him near enough to a lie . You know I hate , detest , and ca n't 
bear 
(have)
a lie , not because I am straighter 
(successive (without a break))

than the rest of us , but simply because it appalls 
(strike with disgust or revulsion)

me . There is a taint of death , a flavour 
(the general atmosphere of a place or situation and the effect that it has on people)

of mortality 
(the quality or state of being mortal)
in lies -- which is exactly 
what I hate and detest in the world -- what I want to forget . It makes me miserable 
and sick , like biting something rotten would do . Temperament , I suppose . Well 
, I went near enough to it by letting 
(make it possible through a specific action or lack of action for something to happen)

the young fool there believe anything he liked 
(prefer or wish to do something)

to imagine as to my influence in Europe . I became in an instant as much of a pretence 
as the rest of the bewitched pilgrims . This simply because I had a notion it somehow 
would be of help to that Kurtz whom at the time I did not see -- you understand 
. He was just a word for me . I did not see the man in the name any more than you 
do . Do you see him ? Do you see the story ? Do you see anything ? It seems to me 
I am trying to tell you a dream -- making a vain attempt , because no relation of 
a dream can convey 
(make known; pass on, of information)
the dream-sensation , 
that commingling 
(mix or blend)
of absurdity 
(a message whose content is at variance with reason)

, surprise , and bewilderment 
(confusion resulting from failure to understand)

in a tremor of struggling 
(make a strenuous or labored effort)
revolt 
(organized opposition to authority; a conflict in which one faction tries to wrest control from another)

, that notion of being captured 
(succeed in representing or expressing something intangible)

by the incredible which is of the very essence 
(the choicest or most essential or most vital part of some idea or experience)

of dreams ... . '' He was silent for a while . `` ... No , it is impossible ; it 
is impossible to convey the life-sensation of any given epoch 
(a period marked by distinctive character or reckoned from a fixed point or event)

of one 's existence -- that which makes its truth , its meaning -- its subtle and 
penetrating 
(pass into or through, often by overcoming resistance)
essence . It 
is impossible . We live , as we dream -- alone ... . '' He paused again as if reflecting 
(manifest or bring back)

, then added : '' Of course in this you fellows see more than I could then . You 
see me , whom you know ... . '' It had become so pitch dark that we listeners 
(someone who listens attentively)

could hardly see one another . For a long time already he , sitting apart , had 
been no more to us than a voice . There was not a word from anybody . The others 
might have been asleep , but I was awake 
(stop sleeping)
. I listened 
(hear with intention)

, I listened on the watch for the sentence 
(a string of words satisfying the grammatical rules of a language)

, for the word , that would give me the clue 
(a slight indication)
to the faint 
uneasiness inspired by this narrative 
(consisting of or characterized by the telling of a story)

that seemed to shape 
(any spatial attributes (especially as defined by outline))

itself without human lips in the heavy night-air of the river . `` ... Yes -- I 
let him run on , '' Marlow began again , `` and think what he pleased 
(give pleasure to or be pleasing to)

about the powers 
(possession of controlling influence)
that were behind me . I 
did ! And there was nothing behind me ! There was nothing but that wretched , old 
, mangled 
(press with a mangle)
steamboat I was leaning against , while he talked 
fluently 
(in a fluent manner)
about 'the necessity 
(the condition of being essential or indispensable)

for every man to get on . ' 'And when one comes out here , you conceive 
(have the idea for)

, it is not to gaze at the moon . ' Mr. Kurtz was a 'universal genius , ' but even 
a genius would find it easier to work with 'adequate tools 
(an implement used in the practice of a vocation)

-- intelligent men . ' He did not make bricks -- why , there was a physical 
(involving the body as distinguished from the mind or spirit)

impossibility 
(incapability of existing or occurring)
in the way -- as I was well 
aware 
((sometimes followed by `of') having or showing knowledge or understanding or realization or perception)

; and if he did secretarial work for the manager , it was because 'no sensible 
(showing reason or sound judgment)

man rejects 
(the person or thing that is rejected or set aside as inferior in quality)

wantonly 
(in a wanton manner)
the confidence 
(freedom from doubt; belief in yourself and your abilities)

of his superiors 
(one of greater rank or station or quality)
. ' Did I see it ? 
I saw it . What more did I want ? What I really wanted was rivets 
(ornament consisting of a circular rounded protuberance (as on a vault or shield or belt))

, by heaven ! Rivets 
(ornament consisting of a circular rounded protuberance (as on a vault or shield or belt))

. To get on with the work -- to stop the hole . Rivets I wanted . There were cases 
(an occurrence of something)

of them down at the coast -- cases -- piled 
(arrange in stacks)
up -- burst -- 
split 
(extending the legs at right angles to the trunk (one in front and the other in back))

! You kicked 
(drive or propel with the foot)
a loose rivet 
(ornament consisting of a circular rounded protuberance (as on a vault or shield or belt))

at every second step in that station-yard on the hillside . Rivets had rolled 
(move by turning over or rotating)

into the grove of death . You could fill your pockets 
(a small pouch inside a garment for carrying small articles)

with rivets for the trouble of stooping 
(bend one's back forward from the waist on down)

down -- and there was n't one rivet to be found where it was wanted . We had plates 
((baseball) base consisting of a rubber slab where the batter stands; it must be touched by a base runner in order to score)

that would do , but nothing to fasten 
(cause to be firmly attached)
them with . 
And every week the messenger 
(a person who carries a message)
, a long negro , 
letter-bag on shoulder and staff in hand , left our station for the coast . And 
several times a week a coast caravan came in with trade goods -- ghastly glazed 
(coat with a glaze)

calico that made you shudder only to look at it , glass beads value 
(a numerical quantity measured or assigned or computed)

about a penny a quart , confounded spotted 
(catch sight of)
cotton handkerchiefs 
(a square piece of cloth used for wiping the eyes or nose or as a costume accessory)

. And no rivets . Three carriers could have brought all that was wanted to set that 
steamboat afloat . `` He was becoming confidential now , but I fancy my unresponsive 
(not responding to some influence or stimulus)

attitude 
(a complex mental state involving beliefs and feelings and values and dispositions to act in certain ways)

must have exasperated 
(exasperate or irritate)
him at last , for he judged 
(determine the result of (a competition))

it necessary 
(absolutely essential)
to inform me he feared 
(be afraid or feel anxious or apprehensive about a possible or probable situation or event)

neither God nor devil , let alone any mere man . I said I could see that very well 
, but what I wanted was a certain quantity 
(how much there is or how many there are of something that you can quantify)

of rivets -- and rivets were what really Mr. Kurtz wanted , if he had only known 
it . Now letters went to the coast every week ... . 'My dear sir , ' he cried , 
'I write from dictation 
(an authoritative direction or instruction to do something)

. ' I demanded 
(request urgently and forcefully)
rivets . There was a way -- for 
an intelligent man . He changed his manner ; became very cold , and suddenly began 
to talk about a hippopotamus 
(massive thick-skinned herbivorous animal living in or around rivers of tropical Africa)

; wondered whether sleeping 
(the state of being asleep)
on board the steamer ( 
I stuck to my salvage 
(property or goods saved from damage or destruction)
night 
and day ) I was n't disturbed 
(move deeply)
. There was an old hippo 
(an ancient Numidian town in northwestern Africa adjoining present-day Annaba in northeastern Algeria)

that had the bad habit of getting out on the bank and roaming 
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or employment)

at night over the station grounds 
(your basis for belief or disbelief; knowledge on which to base belief)

. The pilgrims used to turn out in a body and empty every rifle they could lay hands 
on at him . Some even had sat up o ' nights 
(the time after sunset and before sunrise while it is dark outside)

for him . All this energy was wasted 
(spend thoughtlessly; throw away)
, though 
. 'That animal has a charmed life , ' he said ; 'but you can say this only of brutes 
(a cruelly rapacious person)

in this country . No man -- you apprehend 
(get the meaning of something)
me ? -- 
no man here bears 
(have)
a charmed life . ' He stood there for a moment in the 
moonlight with his delicate hooked nose set a little askew , and his mica eyes glittering 
without a wink 
(a very short time (as the time it takes the eye to blink or the heart to beat))

, then , with a curt Good-night , he strode 
(walk with long steps)
off . I could 
see he was disturbed and considerably 
(to a great extent or degree)
puzzled 
(be a mystery or bewildering to)

, which made me feel more hopeful 
(having or manifesting hope)
than I had been 
for days . It was a great comfort to turn from that chap to my influential friend 
, the battered 
(strike against forcefully)
, twisted 
(to move in a twisting or contorted motion, (especially when struggling))

, ruined 
(destroy completely; damage irreparably)
, tin-pot steamboat . I clambered 
(climb awkwardly, as if by scrambling)

on board . She rang under my feet like an empty Huntley & Palmer biscuit-tin kicked 
along a gutter 
(a channel along the eaves or on the roof; collects and carries away rainwater)

; she was nothing so solid 
(characterized by good substantial quality)
in make 
, and rather less pretty in shape , but I had expended 
(use up, consume fully)

enough hard work on her to make me love her . No influential friend would have served 
me better . She had given me a chance to come out a bit -- to find out what I could 
do . No , I don't like work . I had rather laze 
(be idle; exist in a changeless situation)

about and think of all the fine things that can be done . I do n't like work -- 
no man does -- but I like what is in the work -- the chance to find yourself . Your 
own reality -- for yourself , not for others -- what no other man can ever know 
. They can only see the mere show , and never can tell what it really means . `` 
I was not surprised to see somebody sitting aft , on the deck , with his legs dangling 
(hang freely)

over the mud . You see I rather chummed with the few mechanics 
(the branch of physics concerned with the motion of bodies in a frame of reference)

there were in that station , whom the other pilgrims naturally 
(as might be expected)

despised 
(look down on with disdain)
-- on account of their imperfect 
(a tense of verbs used in describing action that is on-going)

manners , I suppose . This was the foreman 
(a person who exercises control over workers)

-- a boiler-maker by trade -- a good worker 
(a person who works at a specific occupation)

. He was a lank , bony , yellow-faced man , with big intense eyes . His aspect was 
worried , and his head was as bald as the palm of my hand ; but his hair in falling 
seemed to have stuck to his chin , and had prospered 
(make steady progress; be at the high point in one's career or reach a high point in historical significance or importance)

in the new locality 
(a surrounding or nearby region)
, for his beard hung down 
to his waist 
(the narrowing of the body between the ribs and hips)
. He was a widower 
(a man whose wife is dead especially one who has not remarried)

with six young children ( he had left them in charge of a sister of his to come 
out there ) , and the passion of his life was pigeon-flying . He was an enthusiast 
and a connoisseur 
(an expert able to appreciate a field; especially in the fine arts)

. He would rave 
(participate in an all-night techno dance party)
about pigeons 
(wild and domesticated birds having a heavy body and short legs)

. After work hours he used sometimes to come over from his hut for a talk about 
his children and his pigeons ; at work , when he had to crawl in the mud under the 
bottom of the steamboat , he would tie up that beard of his in a kind of white serviette 
(a small piece of table linen that is used to wipe the mouth and to cover the lap in order to protect clothing)

he brought for the purpose . It had loops 
(fastener consisting of a metal ring for lining a small hole to permit the attachment of cords or lines)

to go over his ears 
(the sense organ for hearing and equilibrium)
. In the evening 
he could be seen squatted on the bank rinsing 
(wash off soap or remaining dirt)

that wrapper in the creek with great care , then spreading it solemnly 
(in a grave and sedate manner)

on a bush to dry . `` I slapped 
(hit with something flat, like a paddle or the open hand)

him on the back and shouted , 'We shall have rivets ! ' He scrambled 
(to move hurriedly)

to his feet exclaiming 
(utter aloud; often with surprise, horror, or joy)
, 'No 
! Rivets ! ' as though he couldn't believe his ears . Then in a low voice , 'You 
... eh ? ' I do n't know why we behaved like lunatics 
(an insane person)
. I put 
my finger to the side of my nose and nodded 
(express or signify by nodding)
mysteriously 
(in a cryptic manner)

. 'Good for you ! ' he cried , snapped 
(utter in an angry, sharp, or abrupt tone)

his fingers above his head , lifting one foot . I tried a jig 
(music in three-four time for dancing a jig)

. We capered 
(jump about playfully)
on the iron deck . A frightful clatter 
(a rattling noise (often produced by rapid movement))

came out of that hulk 
(a very large person; impressive in size or qualities)
, 
and the virgin 
(a person who has never had sex)
forest on the other bank of the 
creek sent it back in a thundering roll upon the sleeping station . It must have 
made some of the pilgrims sit up in their hovels 
(small crude shelter used as a dwelling)

. A dark figure obscured 
(make less visible or unclear)
the lighted doorway 
(the entrance (the space in a wall) through which you enter or leave a room or building; the space that a door can close)

of the manager 's hut , vanished , then , a second or so after , the doorway itself 
vanished , too . We stopped , and the silence driven away by the stamping 
(walk heavily)

of our feet flowed back again from the recesses of the land . The great wall of 
vegetation , an exuberant 
(joyously unrestrained)
and entangled 
(entrap)
mass 
(the property of a body that causes it to have weight in a gravitational field)

of trunks , branches 
(a division of some larger or more complex organization)
, 
leaves 
(the main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants)
, 
boughs 
(any of the larger branches of a tree)
, festoons 
(a curtain of fabric draped and bound at intervals to form graceful curves)

, motionless in the moonlight , was like a rioting 
(a state of disorder involving group violence)

invasion of soundless life , a rolling wave of plants 
(buildings for carrying on industrial labor)

, piled up , crested 
(lie at the top of)
, ready to topple 
(fall down, as if collapsing)

over the creek , to sweep 
(sweep across or over)
every little man of us out of 
his little existence . And it moved not . A deadened 
(make vague or obscure or make (an image) less visible)

burst of mighty splashes 
(the sound like water splashing)
and snorts 
(a disrespectful laugh)

reached 
(reach a destination, either real or abstract)
us from afar , as though 
an icthyosaurus had been taking a bath of glitter in the great river . 'After all 
, ' said the boiler-maker in a reasonable 
(showing reason or sound judgment)
tone 
, 'why should n't we get the rivets ? ' Why not , indeed ! I did not know of any 
reason why we should n't . 'They'll come in three weeks 
(any period of seven consecutive days)

, ' I said confidently 
(with confidence; in a confident manner)
. `` But they did 
n't . Instead of rivets there came an invasion , an infliction 
(the act of imposing something (as a tax or an embargo))

, a visitation 
(an annoying or frustrating or catastrophic event)
. It came in 
sections 
(a self-contained part of a larger composition (written or musical))
during 
the next three weeks , each section 
(a self-contained part of a larger composition (written or musical))

headed 
(to go or travel towards)
by a donkey 
(the symbol of the Democratic Party; introduced in cartoons by Thomas Nast in 1874)

carrying a white man in new clothes and tan shoes , bowing 
(bend one's knee or body, or lower one's head)

from that elevation 
(the event of something being raised upward)
right and left 
to the impressed 
(have an emotional or cognitive impact upon)
pilgrims . A quarrelsome 
band of footsore sulky 
(a light two-wheeled vehicle for one person; drawn by one horse)

niggers trod 
(put down or press the foot, place the foot)
on the heels of the donkey 
; a lot of tents 
(a portable shelter (usually of canvas stretched over supporting poles and fastened to the ground with ropes and pegs))

, camp-stools , tin boxes , white cases , brown bales 
(a large bundle bound for storage or transport)

would be shot down in the courtyard , and the air of mystery would deepen 
(make more intense, stronger, or more marked)

a little over the muddle of the station . Five such instalments 
(a part of a broadcast serial)

came , with their absurd air of disorderly flight with the loot 
(goods or money obtained illegally)

of innumerable outfit 
(any cohesive unit such as a military company)
shops 
(a mercantile establishment for the retail sale of goods or services)

and provision 
(a stipulated condition)
stores , that , one would think , they were 
lugging 
(carry with difficulty)
, after a raid , into the wilderness for equitable 
(fair to all parties as dictated by reason and conscience)

division 
(an army unit large enough to sustain combat)
. It was an inextricable 
(not permitting extrication; incapable of being disentangled or untied)

mess 
(a state of confusion and disorderliness)
of things decent in themselves but 
that human folly made look like the spoils 
((usually plural) valuables taken by violence (especially in war))

of thieving 
(take by theft)
. `` This devoted band called itself the Eldorado Exploring 
Expedition , and I believe they were sworn 
(utter obscenities or profanities)
to 
secrecy 
(the trait of keeping things secret)
. Their talk , however , was the talk 
of sordid buccaneers 
(someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation)

: it was reckless 
(marked by defiant disregard for danger or consequences)
without 
hardihood 
(the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger)

, greedy 
(immoderately desirous of acquiring e.g. wealth)
without audacity 
(fearless daring)

, and cruel without courage 
(a quality of spirit that enables you to face danger or pain without showing fear)

; there was not an atom 
((physics and chemistry) the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element)

of foresight 
(providence by virtue of planning prudently for the future)
or of 
serious intention in the whole batch 
(all the loaves of bread baked at the same time)

of them , and they did not seem aware these things are wanted for the work of the 
world . To tear treasure out of the bowels 
(the center of the Earth)
of the land 
was their desire , with no more moral 
(concerned with principles of right and wrong or conforming to standards of behavior and character based on those principles)

purpose at the back of it than there is in burglars 
(a thief who enters a building with intent to steal)

breaking 
(terminate)
into a safe . Who paid the expenses 
(amounts paid for goods and services that may be currently tax deductible (as opposed to capital expenditures))

of the noble enterprise 
(a purposeful or industrious undertaking (especially one that requires effort or boldness))

I do n't know ; but the uncle of our manager was leader 
(a person who rules or guides or inspires others)

of that lot . `` In exterior 
(the region that is outside of something)
he resembled 
a butcher 
(a retailer of meat)
in a poor neighbourhood 
(a surrounding or nearby region)

, and his eyes had a look of sleepy cunning . He carried his fat paunch 
(a protruding abdomen)

with ostentation 
(a gaudy outward display)
on his short legs , and during the time 
his gang infested 
(invade in great numbers)
the station spoke to no one but his 
nephew 
(a son of your brother or sister)
. You could see these two roaming about 
all day long with their heads close together in an everlasting 
(any of various plants of various genera of the family Compositae having flowers that can be dried without loss of form or color)

confab 
(an informal conversation)
. `` I had given up worrying 
(be worried, concerned, anxious, troubled, or uneasy)

myself about the rivets . One 's capacity 
(capability to perform or produce)
for 
that kind of folly is more limited 
(place limits on (extent or access))
than you 
would suppose . I said Hang ! -- and let things slide 
(move obliquely or sideways, usually in an uncontrolled manner)

. I had plenty of time for meditation 
(continuous and profound contemplation or musing on a subject or series of subjects of a deep or abstruse nature)

, and now and then I would give some thought to Kurtz . I was n't very interested 
(having or showing interest; especially curiosity or fascination or concern)

in him . No . Still , I was curious to see whether this man , who had come out equipped 
(provide with (something) usually for a specific purpose)

with moral ideas 
(the content of cognition; the main thing you are thinking about)

of some sort , would climb to the top after all and how he would set about his work 
when there . '' `` One evening as I was lying flat on the deck of my steamboat , 
I heard voices approaching 
(move towards)
-- and there were the nephew and the 
uncle strolling along the bank . I laid my head on my arm again , and had nearly 
lost myself in a doze 
(a light fitful sleep)
, when somebody said in my ear , as 
it were : 'I am as harmless as a little child , but I do n't like to be dictated 
(issue commands or orders for)

to . Am I the manager -- or am I not ? I was ordered to send him there . It 's incredible 
. ' ... I became aware that the two were standing on the shore alongside the forepart 
(the side that is forward or prominent)

of the steamboat , just below my head . I did not move ; it did not occur 
(come to pass)

to me to move : I was sleepy . 'It _is_ unpleasant , ' grunted 
(issue a grunting, low, animal-like noise)

the uncle . 'He has asked the Administration to be sent there , ' said the other 
, 'with the idea of showing what he could do ; and I was instructed 
(impart skills or knowledge to)

accordingly 
((sentence connectors) because of the reason given)
. Look at the influence 
that man must have . Is it not frightful ? ' They both agreed 
(be in accord; be in agreement)

it was frightful , then made several bizarre remarks 
(a statement that expresses a personal opinion or belief or adds information)

: 'Make rain and fine weather 
(the atmospheric conditions that comprise the state of the atmosphere in terms of temperature and wind and clouds and precipitation)

-- one man -- the Council -- by the nose ' -- bits 
(a small piece or quantity of something)

of absurd sentences 
(a string of words satisfying the grammatical rules of a language)

that got the better of my drowsiness 
(a very sleepy state)
, so that I had pretty 
near the whole of my wits 
(the basic human power of intelligent thought and perception)

about me when the uncle said , 'The climate may do away with this difficulty for 
you . Is 
(have the quality of being; (copula, used with an adjective or a predicate noun))

he alone there ? ' 'Yes , ' answered the manager ; 'he sent his assistant 
(a person who contributes to the fulfillment of a need or furtherance of an effort or purpose)

down the river with a note to me in these terms : `` Clear 
(readily apparent to the mind)

this poor devil out of the country , and do n't bother sending 
(cause to go somewhere)

more of that sort . I had rather be alone than have the kind of men you can dispose 
(give, sell, or transfer to another)

of with me . '' It was more than a year ago . Can you imagine such impudence 
(an impudent statement)

! ' 'Anything since then ? ' asked the other hoarsely 
(in a hoarse or husky voice)

. 'Ivory , ' jerked 
(pull, or move with a sudden movement)
the nephew ; 'lots of 
it -- prime 
(first in rank or degree)
sort -- lots -- most annoying 
(cause annoyance in; disturb, especially by minor irritations)

, from him . ' 'And with that ? ' questioned 
(challenge the accuracy, probity, or propriety of)

the heavy rumble . 'Invoice , ' was the reply fired 
(start firing a weapon)
out 
, so to speak . Then silence . They had been talking about Kurtz . `` I was broad 
awake by this time , but , lying perfectly at ease , remained still , having 
(have or possess, either in a concrete or an abstract sense)

no inducement 
(a positive motivational influence)
to change my position . 'How 
did that ivory come all this way ? ' growled 
(to utter or emit low dull rumbling sounds)

the elder 
(a person who is older than you are)
man , who seemed very vexed 
(cause annoyance in; disturb, especially by minor irritations)

. The other explained 
(make plain and comprehensible)
that it had come with a fleet 
of canoes 
(small and light boat; pointed at both ends; propelled with a paddle)

in charge of an English half-caste clerk Kurtz had with him ; that Kurtz had apparently 
intended 
(have in mind as a purpose)
to return himself , the station being by that 
time bare of goods and stores , but after coming three hundred miles , had suddenly 
decided 
(reach, make, or come to a decision about something)
to go back , which 
he started to do alone in a small dugout 
(either of two low shelters on either side of a baseball diamond where the players and coaches sit during the game)

with four paddlers 
(someone paddling a canoe)
, leaving 
(go away from a place)

the half-caste to continue down the river with the ivory . The two fellows there 
seemed astounded 
(affect with wonder)
at anybody attempting 
(make an effort or attempt)

such a thing . They were at a loss 
(something that is lost)
for an adequate 
(having the requisite qualities or resources to meet a task)

motive 
(the psychological feature that arouses an organism to action toward a desired goal; the reason for the action; that which gives purpose and direction to behavior)

. As to me , I seemed to see Kurtz for the first time . It was a distinct 
((often followed by `from') not alike; different in nature or quality)

glimpse 
(a quick look)
: the dugout , four paddling 
(propel with a paddle)
savages 
, and the lone white man turning his back suddenly on the headquarters 
((usually plural) the office that serves as the administrative center of an enterprise)

, on relief 
(the feeling that comes when something burdensome is removed or reduced)

, on thoughts of home -- perhaps ; setting 
(put into a certain place or abstract location)

his face towards the depths of the wilderness , towards his empty and desolate 
(leave someone who needs or counts on you; leave in the lurch)

station . I did not know the motive . Perhaps he was just simply a fine fellow who 
stuck to his work for its own sake . His name , you understand , had not been pronounced 
once . He was 'that man . ' The half-caste , who , as far as I could see , had conducted 
(direct the course of; manage or control)

a difficult trip with great prudence and pluck 
(the trait of showing courage and determination in spite of possible loss or injury)

, was invariably 
(without variation or change, in every case)
alluded to as 'that 
scoundrel 
(a wicked or evil person; someone who does evil deliberately)
. ' The 
'scoundrel ' had reported 
(to give an account or representation of in words)
that 
the 'man ' had been very ill -- had recovered 
(get or find back; recover the use of)

imperfectly 
(in an imperfect or faulty way)
... . The two below me moved away then 
a few paces 
(the rate of moving (especially walking or running))
, and strolled 
back and forth at some little distance . I heard : 'Military post -- doctor -- two 
hundred miles -- quite alone now -- unavoidable 
(impossible to avoid or evade:"inescapable conclusion")

delays -- nine months -- no news -- strange rumours . ' They approached again , 
just as the manager was saying , 'No one , as far as I know , unless a species 
((biology) taxonomic group whose members can interbreed)

of wandering 
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or employment)

trader -- a pestilential 
(likely to spread and cause an epidemic disease)
fellow 
, snapping 
(utter in an angry, sharp, or abrupt tone)
ivory from the natives . 
' Who was it they were talking about now ? I gathered 
(assemble or get together)

in snatches 
(a small fragment)
that this was some man supposed to be in Kurtz 's 
district 
(a region marked off for administrative or other purposes)
, and of whom 
the manager did not approve 
(give sanction to)
. 'We will not be free from unfair 
(not fair; marked by injustice or partiality or deception)

competition 
(a business relation in which two parties compete to gain customers)

till one of these fellows is hanged for an example 
(an item of information that is typical of a class or group)

, ' he said . 'Certainly , ' grunted the other ; 'get him hanged ! Why not ? Anything 
-- anything can be done in this country . That 's what I say ; nobody here , you 
understand , _here_ , can endanger 
(pose a threat to; present a danger to)
your 
position . And why ? You stand the climate -- you outlast 
(live longer than)
them 
all . The danger 
(the condition of being susceptible to harm or injury)
is in Europe 
; but there before I left I took care to -- ' They moved off and whispered , then 
their voices rose again . 'The extraordinary series 
(similar things placed in order or happening one after another)

of delays is not my fault . I did my best . ' The fat man sighed . 'Very sad . ' 
'And the pestiferous 
(contaminated with infecting organisms)
absurdity of his talk 
, ' continued the other ; 'he bothered 
(take the trouble to do something; concern oneself)

me enough when he was here . `` Each station should be like a beacon 
(a fire (usually on a hill or tower) that can be seen from a distance)

on the road towards better things , a centre for trade of course , but also for 
humanizing 
(make more humane)
, improving 
(to make better)
, instructing 
(impart skills or knowledge to)

. '' Conceive you -- that ass ! And he wants 
(feel or have a desire for; want strongly)

to be manager ! No , it 's -- ' Here he got choked 
(breathe with great difficulty, as when experiencing a strong emotion)

by excessive 
(beyond normal limits)
indignation 
(a feeling of righteous anger)

, and I lifted my head the least bit . I was surprised to see how near they were 
-- right under me . I could have spat 
(come down like raindrops)
upon their hats 
(headdress that protects the head from bad weather; has shaped crown and usually a brim)

. They were looking on the ground , absorbed 
(become imbued)
in thought . The manager 
was switching 
(change over, change around, as to a new order or sequence)
his leg 
with a slender twig 
(a small branch or division of a branch (especially a terminal division); usually applied to branches of the current or preceding year)

: his sagacious 
(acutely insightful and wise)
relative 
(estimated by comparison; not absolute or complete)

lifted his head . 'You have been well since you came out this time ? ' he asked 
. The other gave a start . 'Who ? I ? Oh ! Like a charm -- like a charm . But the 
rest -- oh , my goodness ! All sick . They die so quick , too , that I haven't the 
time to send them out of the country -- it 's incredible ! ' 'Hm 'm . Just so , 
' grunted the uncle . 'Ah ! my boy , trust to this -- I say , trust to this . ' 
I saw him extend 
(extend in scope or range or area)
his short flipper 
(a shoe for swimming; the paddle-like front is an aid in swimming (especially underwater))

of an arm for a gesture 
(motion of hands or body to emphasize or help to express a thought or feeling)

that took in the forest , the creek , the mud , the river -- seemed to beckon 
(signal with the hands or nod)

with a dishonouring flourish 
(a showy gesture)
before the sunlit face of the land 
a treacherous 
(dangerously unstable and unpredictable)
appeal to the lurking death 
, to the hidden evil , to the profound darkness of its heart . It was so startling 
that I leaped to my feet and looked back at the edge of the forest , as though I 
had expected an answer of some sort to that black display 
(something intended to communicate a particular impression)

of confidence . You know the foolish notions 
(a vague idea in which some confidence is placed)

that come to one sometimes . The high stillness confronted 
(oppose, as in hostility or a competition)

these two figures with its ominous patience 
(good-natured tolerance of delay or incompetence)

, waiting for the passing away of a fantastic invasion . `` They swore 
(utter obscenities or profanities)

aloud together -- out of sheer fright 
(an emotion experienced in anticipation of some specific pain or danger (usually accompanied by a desire to flee or fight))

, I believe -- then pretending not to know anything of my existence , turned back 
to the station . The sun was low ; and leaning forward side by side , they seemed 
to be tugging 
(pull hard)
painfully 
(unpleasantly)
uphill their two ridiculous 
(inspiring scornful pity)

shadows of unequal 
(poorly balanced or matched in quantity or value or measure)

length , that trailed 
(to lag or linger behind)
behind them slowly over the tall 
grass without bending 
(movement that causes the formation of a curve)
a single 
blade 
(especially a leaf of grass or the broad portion of a leaf as distinct from the petiole)

. `` In a few days the Eldorado Expedition went into the patient 
(a person who requires medical care)

wilderness , that closed upon it as the sea closes 
(move so that an opening or passage is obstructed; make shut)

over a diver 
(someone who works underwater)
. Long 
(primarily temporal sense; being or indicating a relatively great or greater than average duration or passage of time or a duration as specified)

afterwards the news came that all the donkeys 
(the symbol of the Democratic Party; introduced in cartoons by Thomas Nast in 1874)

were dead . I know nothing as to the fate 
(an event (or a course of events) that will inevitably happen in the future)

of the less valuable 
(having great material or monetary value especially for use or exchange)

animals 
(a living organism characterized by voluntary movement)
. They , no doubt 
, like the rest of us , found what they deserved 
(be worthy or deserving)
. I did 
not inquire 
(inquire about)
. I was then rather excited 
(arouse or elicit a feeling)

at the prospect 
(the possibility of future success)
of meeting 
(a formally arranged gathering)

Kurtz very soon . When I say very soon I mean it comparatively 
(in a relative manner; by comparison to something else)

. It was just two months from the day we left the creek when we came to the bank 
below Kurtz 's station . `` Going up that river was like traveling 
(the act of going from one place to another)

back to the earliest 
((comparative and superlative of `early') more early than; most early)

beginnings 
(the event consisting of the start of something)
of the world , when 
vegetation rioted on the earth and the big trees were kings . An empty stream , 
a great silence , an impenetrable 
(not admitting of penetration or passage into or through)

forest . The air was warm , thick , heavy , sluggish 
(moving slowly)
. There was 
no joy in the brilliance of sunshine . The long stretches 
(a large and unbroken expanse or distance)

of the waterway ran on , deserted , into the gloom of overshadowed 
(be greater in significance than)

distances 
(the property created by the space between two objects or points)
. On 
silvery sand-banks hippos 
(an ancient Numidian town in northwestern Africa adjoining present-day Annaba in northeastern Algeria)

and alligators 
(leather made from alligator's hide)
sunned 
(expose one's body to the sun)

themselves side by side . The broadening 
(the act of making something wider)
waters 
flowed through a mob 
(a disorderly crowd of people)
of wooded islands 
(a land mass (smaller than a continent) that is surrounded by water)

; you lost your way on that river as you would in a desert , and butted 
(lie adjacent to another or share a boundary)

all day long against shoals 
(a sandbank in a stretch of water that is visible at low tide)

, trying to find the channel 
(a path over which electrical signals can pass)
, 
till you thought yourself bewitched and cut off for ever from everything you had 
known once -- somewhere -- far away -- in another existence perhaps . There were 
moments 
(a particular point in time)
when one 's past came back to one , as it 
will sometimes when you have not a moment to spare 
(refrain from harming)
for yourself 
; but it came in the shape of an unrestful and noisy 
(full of or characterized by loud and nonmusical sounds)

dream , remembered with wonder amongst the overwhelming realities 
(all of your experiences that determine how things appear to you)

of this strange world of plants , and water , and silence . And this stillness of 
life did not in the least resemble a peace . It was the stillness of an implacable 
(incapable of being placated)

force brooding over an inscrutable intention . It looked at you with a vengeful 
(disposed to seek revenge or intended for revenge)

aspect . I got used to it afterwards ; I did not see it any more ; I had no time 
. I had to keep guessing 
(an estimate based on little or no information)
at the 
channel ; I had to discern 
(detect with the senses)
, mostly by inspiration 
(arousal of the mind to special unusual activity or creativity)

, the signs 
(a perceptible indication of something not immediately apparent (as a visible clue that something has happened))

of hidden banks ; I watched for sunken stones ; I was learning to clap 
(put quickly or forcibly)

my teeth smartly 
(in a clever manner)
before my heart flew out , when I shaved 
(remove body hair with a razor)

by a fluke 
(a stroke of luck)
some infernal 
(characteristic of or resembling Hell)

sly old snag 
(a sharp protuberance)
that would have ripped 
(tear or be torn violently)

the life out of the tin-pot steamboat and drowned all the pilgrims ; I had to keep 
a lookout 
(a person employed to keep watch for some anticipated event)
for the 
signs of dead wood we could cut up in the night for next day 's steaming . When 
you have to attend 
(be present at (meetings, church services, university), etc.)

to things of that sort , to the mere incidents 
(a single distinct event)
of the 
surface 
(the outer boundary of an artifact or a material layer constituting or resembling such a boundary)

, the reality -- the reality , I tell you -- fades 
(a golf shot that curves to the right for a right-handed golfer)

. The inner truth is hidden -- luckily 
(by good fortune)
, luckily . But I felt 
it all the same ; I felt often its mysterious stillness watching 
(look attentively)

me at my monkey 
(any of various long-tailed primates (excluding the prosimians))

tricks 
(a cunning or deceitful action or device)
, just as it watches 
(look attentively)

you fellows performing 
(carry out or perform an action)
on your respective 
(considered individually)

tight-ropes for -- what is it ? half-a-crown a tumble -- '' '' Try to be civil , 
Marlow , '' growled a voice , and I knew there was at least one listener 
(someone who listens attentively)

awake besides myself . `` I beg your pardon 
(the act of excusing a mistake or offense)

. I forgot 
(dismiss from the mind; stop remembering)
the heartache 
(intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death))

which makes up the rest of the price 
(the property of having material worth (often indicated by the amount of money something would bring if sold))

. And indeed what does the price matter , if the trick 
(a cunning or deceitful action or device)

be well done ? You do your tricks very well . And I did n't do badly either , since 
I managed not to sink 
(fall or descend to a lower place or level)
that steamboat 
on my first trip . It 's a wonder to me yet . Imagine a blindfolded man set to drive 
a van 
(any creative group active in the innovation and application of new concepts and techniques in a given field (especially in the arts))

over a bad road . I sweated 
(excrete perspiration through the pores in the skin)

and shivered 
(tremble convulsively, as from fear or excitement)
over that business 
considerably , I can tell you . After all , for a seaman , to scrape 
(scratch repeatedly)

the bottom of the thing that's supposed to float 
(be in motion due to some air or water current)

all the time under his care is the unpardonable 
(not admitting of pardon)
sin . 
No one may know of it , but you never forget the thump 
(a heavy dull sound (as made by impact of heavy objects))

-- eh ? A blow 
(a powerful stroke with the fist or a weapon)
on the very heart 
. You remember it , you dream of it , you wake up at night and think of it -- years 
after -- and go hot and cold all over . I do n't pretend to say that steamboat floated 
all the time . More 
(used to form the comparative of some adjectives and adverbs)

than once she had to wade 
(walk (through relatively shallow water))
for a bit , 
with twenty cannibals 
(a person who eats human flesh)
splashing 
(cause (a liquid) to spatter about, especially with force)

around and pushing 
(move with force, "He pushed the table into a corner")
. We 
had enlisted 
(join the military)
some of these chaps on the way for a crew 
(the men and women who man a vehicle (ship, aircraft, etc.))

. Fine fellows -- cannibals -- in their place . They were men one could work with 
, and I am grateful 
(feeling or showing gratitude)
to them . And , after all , 
they did not eat each other before my face : they had brought along a provision 
of hippo-meat which went rotten , and made the mystery of the wilderness stink 
(a distinctive odor that is offensively unpleasant)

in my nostrils . Phoo ! I can sniff 
(perceive by inhaling through the nose)
it 
now . I had the manager on board and three or four pilgrims with their staves -- 
all complete . Sometimes we came upon a station close by the bank , clinging to 
the skirts 
(cloth covering that forms the part of a garment below the waist)
of 
the unknown , and the white men rushing out of a tumble-down 
(in deplorable condition)

hovel 
(small crude shelter used as a dwelling)
, with great gestures of joy and 
surprise and welcome 
(accept gladly)
, seemed very strange -- had the appearance 
of being held there captive 
(being in captivity)
by a spell 
(a psychological state induced by (or as if induced by) a magical incantation)

. The word ivory would ring in the air for a while -- and on we went again into 
the silence , along empty reaches , round the still bends 
(form a curve)
, between 
the high walls of our winding 
(the act of winding or twisting)
way , reverberating 
(ring or echo with sound)

in hollow 
(not solid; having a space or gap or cavity)
claps 
(a sudden very loud noise)

the ponderous 
(slow and laborious because of weight)
beat of the stern-wheel . 
Trees 
(a tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a distinct elevated crown; includes both gymnosperms and angiosperms)

, trees , millions of trees , massive 
(imposing in size or bulk or solidity)
, 
immense , running up high ; and at their foot , hugging 
(squeeze (someone) tightly in your arms, usually with fondness)

the bank against the stream , crept 
(move slowly; in the case of people or animals with the body near the ground)

the little begrimed 
(make soiled, filthy, or dirty)
steamboat , like a sluggish 
beetle 
(insect having biting mouthparts and front wings modified to form horny covers overlying the membranous rear wings)

crawling 
(move slowly; in the case of people or animals with the body near the ground)

on the floor of a lofty 
(of high moral or intellectual value; elevated in nature or style)

portico 
(a porch or entrance to a building consisting of a covered and often columned area)

. It made you feel very small , very lost , and yet it was not altogether depressing 
(lower someone's spirits; make downhearted)

, that feeling . After all , if you were small , the grimy beetle crawled 
(move slowly; in the case of people or animals with the body near the ground)

on -- which was just what you wanted it to do . Where the pilgrims imagined 
(form a mental image of something that is not present or that is not the case)

it crawled to I do n't know . To some place where they expected to get something 
. I bet ! For me it crawled towards Kurtz -- exclusively 
(without any others being included or involved)

; but when the steam-pipes started leaking 
(tell anonymously)
we crawled very slow 
. The reaches opened before us and closed behind , as if the forest had stepped 
leisurely 
(in an unhurried way or at one's convenience)
across the water to bar 
the way for our return . We penetrated 
(pass into or through, often by overcoming resistance)

deeper and deeper into the heart of darkness . It was very quiet there . At night 
sometimes the roll of drums behind the curtain 
(hanging cloth used as a blind (especially for a window))

of trees would run up the river and remain sustained 
(lengthen or extend in duration or space)

faintly 
(to a faint degree or weakly perceived)
, as if hovering in the air high 
over our heads , till the first break of day . Whether it meant war , peace , or 
prayer 
(the act of communicating with a deity (especially as a petition or in adoration or contrition or thanksgiving))

we could not tell . The dawns 
(the first light of day)
were heralded 
(foreshadow or presage)

by the descent 
(a movement downward)
of a chill 
(coldness due to a cold environment)

stillness ; the wood-cutters slept 
(be asleep)
, their fires 
(the event of something burning (often destructive))

burned 
(destroy by fire)
low ; the snapping of a twig would make you start . We 
were wanderers 
(someone who leads a wandering unsettled life)
on a prehistoric 
(belonging to or existing in times before recorded history)

earth , on an earth that wore the aspect of an unknown planet . We could have fancied 
ourselves the first of men taking possession of an accursed 
(curse or declare to be evil or anathema or threaten with divine punishment)

inheritance 
(hereditary succession to a title or an office or property)
, to be 
subdued 
(put down by force or intimidation)
at the cost of profound anguish 
(extreme mental distress)

and of excessive toil . But suddenly , as we struggled 
(make a strenuous or labored effort)

round a bend 
(a circular segment of a curve)
, there would be a glimpse of rush 
walls , of peaked grass-roofs , a burst of yells 
(a loud utterance; often in protest or opposition)

, a whirl 
(confused movement)
of black limbs , a mass of hands clapping 
(put quickly or forcibly)

of feet stamping , of bodies swaying , of eyes rolling , under the droop 
(a shape that sags)

of heavy and motionless foliage 
(the main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants)

. The steamer toiled 
(work hard)
along slowly on the edge of a black and incomprehensible 
frenzy 
(state of violent mental agitation)
. The prehistoric man was cursing 
(utter obscenities or profanities)

us , praying to us , welcoming 
(accept gladly)
us -- who could tell ? We were cut 
off from the comprehension 
(an ability to understand the meaning or importance of something (or the knowledge acquired as a result))

of our surroundings ; we glided past like phantoms 
(a ghostly appearing figure)

, wondering 
(have a wish or desire to know something)
and secretly 
(in secrecy; not openly)

appalled , as sane men would be before an enthusiastic outbreak 
(a sudden violent spontaneous occurrence (usually of some undesirable condition))

in a madhouse 
(pejorative terms for an insane asylum)
. We could not understand 
because we were too far and could not remember because we were travelling in the 
night of first ages , of those ages that are gone , leaving hardly a sign -- and 
no memories . `` The earth seemed unearthly . We are accustomed 
(make psychologically or physically used (to something))

to look upon the shackled 
(bind the arms of)
form of a conquered 
(to put down by force or authority)

monster 
(an imaginary creature usually having various human and animal parts)
, 
but there -- there you could look at a thing monstrous and free . It was unearthly 
, and the men were -- No , they were not inhuman 
(without compunction or human feeling)

. Well , you know , that was the worst of it -- this suspicion of their not being 
inhuman . It would come slowly to one . They howled 
(emit long loud cries)
and 
leaped , and spun 
(revolve quickly and repeatedly around one's own axis)
, and 
made horrid faces ; but what thrilled 
(cause to be thrilled by some perceptual input)

you was just the thought of their humanity 
(the quality of being humane)
-- like 
yours -- the thought of your remote 
(a device that can be used to control a machine or apparatus from a distance)

kinship 
(a close connection marked by community of interests or similarity in nature or character)

with this wild and passionate uproar . Ugly . Yes , it was ugly enough ; but if 
you were man enough you would admit to yourself that there was in you just the faintest 
trace 
(a just detectable amount)
of a response 
(a result)
to the terrible 
(causing fear or dread or terror)

frankness 
(the quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech)

of that noise , a dim suspicion of there being a meaning in it which you -- you 
so remote from the night of first ages -- could comprehend 
(get the meaning of something)

. And why not ? The mind of man is capable 
((usually followed by `of') having capacity or ability)

of anything -- because everything is in it , all the past as well as all the future 
. What was there after all ? Joy , fear , sorrow 
(an emotion of great sadness associated with loss or bereavement)

, devotion , valour , rage 
(a feeling of intense anger)
-- who can tell ? -- but 
truth -- truth stripped 
(take away possessions from someone)
of its cloak 
(anything that covers or conceals)

of time . Let the fool gape 
(an expression of openmouthed astonishment)
and shudder 
-- the man knows , and can look on without a wink . But he must at least be as much 
of a man as these on the shore . He must meet that truth with his own true stuff 
-- with his own inborn strength . Principles won't do . Acquisitions 
(the act of contracting or assuming or acquiring possession of something)

, clothes , pretty rags -- rags that would fly off at the first good shake . No 
; you want a deliberate belief . An appeal to me in this fiendish row -- is there 
? Very well ; I hear ; I admit , but I have a voice , too , and for good or evil 
mine is the speech that can not be silenced 
(cause to be quiet or not talk)
. Of 
course , a fool , what with sheer fright and fine sentiments 
(tender, romantic, or nostalgic feeling or emotion)

, is always safe . Who 's that grunting 
(issue a grunting, low, animal-like noise)

? You wonder I did n't go ashore for a howl 
(a long loud emotional utterance)
and 
a dance ? Well , no -- I did n't . Fine sentiments , you say ? Fine sentiments , 
be hanged ! I had no time . I had to mess about with white-lead and strips of woolen 
(a fabric made from the hair of sheep)

blanket 
(bedding that keeps a person warm in bed)
helping 
(give help or assistance; be of service)

to put bandages 
(a piece of soft material that covers and protects an injured part of the body)

on those leaky 
(permitting the unwanted passage of fluids or gases)
steam-pipes 
-- I tell you . I had to watch the steering 
(the act of guiding or showing the way)

, and circumvent those snags 
(a sharp protuberance)
, and get the tin-pot along 
by hook or by crook . There was surface-truth enough in these things to save a wiser 
man . And between whiles 
(a period of indeterminate length (usually short) marked by some action or condition)

I had to look after the savage who was fireman . He was an improved 
(to make better)

specimen 
(an example regarded as typical of its class)
; he could fire up a vertical 
(at right angles to the plane of the horizon or a base line)

boiler . He was there below me , and , upon my word , to look at him was as edifying 
as seeing a dog in a parody 
(a composition that imitates or misrepresents somebody's style, usually in a humorous way)

of breeches 
(trousers ending above the knee)
and a feather 
(the light horny waterproof structure forming the external covering of birds)

hat , walking on his hind-legs . A few months of training 
(activity leading to skilled behavior)

had done for that really fine chap . He squinted 
(cross one's eyes as if in strabismus)

at the steam-gauge and at the water-gauge with an evident effort 
(earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something)

of intrepidity 
(resolute courageousness)
-- and he had filed 
(record in a public office or in a court of law)

teeth , too , the poor devil , and the wool of his pate 
(liver or meat or fowl finely minced or ground and variously seasoned)

shaved into queer patterns 
(a perceptual structure)
, and three ornamental 
(serving an esthetic rather than a useful purpose)

scars 
(a mark left (usually on the skin) by the healing of injured tissue)
on each 
of his cheeks . He ought to have been clapping his hands and stamping his feet on 
the bank , instead of which he was hard at work , a thrall 
(the state of being under the control of another person)

to strange witchcraft 
(the art of sorcery)
, full of improving knowledge 
(the psychological result of perception and learning and reasoning)

. He was useful 
(being of use or service)
because he had been instructed ; and 
what he knew was this -- that should the water in that transparent thing disappear 
, the evil spirit inside the boiler would get angry through the greatness of his 
thirst 
(a physiological need to drink)
, and take a terrible vengeance 
(the act of taking revenge (harming someone in retaliation for something harmful that they have done) especially in the next life; I will repay, saith the Lord"--Romans 12:19)

. So he sweated and fired up and watched the glass fearfully 
(in fear, "she hurried down the stairs fearfully")

( with an impromptu 
(an extemporaneous speech or remark)
charm , made of rags , 
tied to his arm , and a piece of polished 
(perfected or made shiny and smooth)

bone , as big as a watch , stuck flatways through his lower lip ) , while the wooded 
banks slipped past us slowly , the short noise was left behind , the interminable 
miles of silence -- and we crept on , towards Kurtz . But the snags were thick , 
the water was treacherous and shallow 
(lacking physical depth; having little spatial extension downward or inward from an outer surface or backward or outward from a center)

, the boiler seemed indeed to have a sulky devil in it , and thus neither that fireman 
nor I had any time to peer 
(a person who is of equal standing with another in a group)

into our creepy 
(annoying and unpleasant)
thoughts . `` Some fifty miles below 
the Inner Station we came upon a hut of reeds 
(tall woody perennial grasses with hollow slender stems especially of the genera Arundo and Phragmites)

, an inclined 
(have a tendency or disposition to do or be something; be inclined)

and melancholy pole , with the unrecognizable 
(defying recognition as e.g. because of damage or alteration)

tatters 
(a small piece of cloth or paper)
of what had been a flag of some sort 
flying from it , and a neatly 
(with neatness)
stacked 
(load or cover with stacks)

wood-pile . This was unexpected . We came to the bank , and on the stack of firewood 
(wood used for fuel)

found a flat piece of board with some faded 
(become less clearly visible or distinguishable; disappear gradually or seemingly)

pencil-writing on it . When deciphered 
(convert code into ordinary language)
it 
said : 'Wood for you . Hurry up . Approach cautiously 
(as if with kid gloves; with caution or prudence or tact)

. ' There was a signature 
(your name written in your own handwriting)
, but it 
was illegible 
((of handwriting, print, etc.) not legible)
-- not Kurtz -- a much 
longer 
(a person with a strong desire for something)
word . 'Hurry up . ' Where 
? Up the river ? 'Approach cautiously . ' We had not done so . But the warning could 
not have been meant for the place where it could be only found after approach . 
Something was wrong above . But what -- and how much ? That was the question . We 
commented 
(make or write a comment on)
adversely 
(in an adverse manner)
upon the 
imbecility 
(retardation more severe than a moron but not as severe as an idiot)

of that telegraphic 
(of or relating to or transmitted by telegraph)
style 
(how something is done or how it happens)

. The bush around said nothing , and would not let us look very far , either . A 
torn curtain of red twill 
(a weave used to produce the effect of parallel diagonal ribs)

hung in the doorway of the hut , and flapped 
(move in a wavy pattern or with a rising and falling motion)

sadly 
(in an unfortunate way)
in our faces . The dwelling 
(housing that someone is living in)

was dismantled ; but we could see a white man had lived there not very long ago 
. There remained a rude table -- a plank 
(a stout length of sawn timber; made in a wide variety of sizes and used for many purposes)

on two posts 
(the position where someone (as a guard or sentry) stands or is assigned to stand)

; a heap of rubbish reposed in a dark corner , and by the door I picked 
(select carefully from a group)

up a book . It had lost its covers 
(a covering that serves to conceal or shelter something)

, and the pages 
(one side of one leaf (of a book or magazine or newspaper or letter etc.) or the written or pictorial matter it contains)

had been thumbed 
(travel by getting free rides from motorists)
into a state of 
extremely dirty 
(soiled or likely to soil with dirt or grime)
softness 
(the property of giving little resistance to pressure and being easily cut or molded)

; but the back had been lovingly 
(with fondness; with love)
stitched 
(fasten by sewing; do needlework)

afresh with white cotton thread , which looked clean yet . It was an extraordinary 
find . Its title 
(give a title to)
was , _An Inquiry into some Points 
(a geometric element that has position but no extension)

of Seamanship_ , by a man Towser , Towson -- some such name -- Master in his Majesty 
's Navy . The matter looked dreary 
(lacking in liveliness or charm or surprise)

reading 
(the cognitive process of understanding a written linguistic message)
enough 
, with illustrative 
(clarifying by use of examples)
diagrams 
(a drawing intended to explain how something works; a drawing showing the relation between the parts)

and repulsive 
(offensive to the mind)
tables 
(a set of data arranged in rows and columns)

of figures , and the copy 
(a reproduction of a written record (e.g. of a legal or school record))

was sixty years old . I handled 
(be in charge of, act on, or dispose of)
this amazing 
antiquity 
(the historic period preceding the Middle Ages in Europe)
with the greatest 
possible tenderness 
(a tendency to express warm and affectionate feeling)
, lest 
it should dissolve 
(become weaker)
in my hands . Within , Towson or Towser was 
inquiring 
(inquire about)
earnestly into the breaking strain 
((physics) deformation of a physical body under the action of applied forces)

of ships ' chains 
(metal shackles; for hands or legs)
and tackle , and other such 
matters 
(a vaguely specified concern)
. Not a very enthralling 
(hold spellbound)

book ; but at the first glance you could see there a singleness of intention , an 
honest concern for the right way of going to work , which made these humble 
(low or inferior in station or quality)

pages , thought out so many years ago , luminous with another than a professional 
(engaged in a profession or engaging in as a profession or means of livelihood)

light . The simple old sailor , with his talk of chains and purchases 
(the acquisition of something for payment)

, made me forget the jungle and the pilgrims in a delicious 
(greatly pleasing or entertaining)

sensation 
(an unelaborated elementary awareness of stimulation)
of having come 
upon something unmistakably 
(without possibility of mistake)
real . Such a book 
being there was wonderful enough ; but still more astounding 
(affect with wonder)

were the notes pencilled 
(write, draw, or trace with a pencil)
in the margin 
(the boundary line or the area immediately inside the boundary)

, and plainly 
(unmistakably (`plain' is often used informally for `plainly'))
referring 
(make reference to)

to the text 
(the words of something written)
. I could n't believe my eyes ! They 
were in cipher ! Yes , it looked like cipher 
(a message written in a secret code)

. Fancy a man lugging with him a book of that description 
(a statement that represents something in words)

into this nowhere and studying 
(consider in detail and subject to an analysis in order to discover essential features or meaning)

it -- and making notes -- in cipher at that ! It was an extravagant 
(unrestrained, especially with regard to feelings)

mystery . `` I had been dimly 
(in a dim indistinct manner)
aware for some time 
of a worrying noise , and when I lifted my eyes I saw the wood-pile was gone , and 
the manager , aided 
(give help or assistance; be of service)
by all the pilgrims 
, was shouting 
(utter in a loud voice; talk in a loud voice (usually denoting characteristic manner of speaking))

at me from the riverside . I slipped the book into my pocket . I assure you to leave 
off reading was like tearing myself away from the shelter 
(a structure that provides privacy and protection from danger)

of an old and solid friendship 
(the state of being friends (or friendly))
. `` 
I started the lame 
(someone who doesn't understand what is going on)
engine 
(motor that converts thermal energy to mechanical work)

ahead . 'It must be this miserable trader -- this intruder 
(someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission)

, ' exclaimed the manager , looking back malevolently 
(in a malevolent manner)

at the place we had left . 'He must be English , ' I said . 'It will not save him 
from getting into trouble if he is not careful , ' muttered 
(talk indistinctly; usually in a low voice)

the manager darkly 
(without light)
. I observed 
(discover or determine the existence, presence, or fact of)

with assumed 
(take to be the case or to be true; accept without verification or proof)

innocence 
(the quality of innocent naivete)
that no man was safe from trouble in 
this world . `` The current was more rapid 
(done or occurring in a brief period of time)

now , the steamer seemed at her last gasp , the stern-wheel flopped 
(fall loosely)

languidly , and I caught myself listening 
(hear with intention)
on tiptoe 
(the tip of a toe)

for the next beat of the boat , for in sober truth I expected the wretched thing 
to give up every moment . It was like watching the last flickers 
(a momentary flash of light)

of a life . But still we crawled . Sometimes I would pick out a tree a little way 
ahead to measure our progress towards Kurtz by , but I lost it invariably before 
we got abreast 
(being up to particular standard or level especially in being up to date in knowledge)

. To keep the eyes so long on one thing was too much for human patience . The manager 
displayed 
(to show, make visible or apparent)
a beautiful resignation 
(acceptance of despair)

. I fretted 
(worry unnecessarily or excessively)
and fumed 
(be mad, angry, or furious)

and took to arguing 
(a contentious speech act; a dispute where there is strong disagreement)

with myself whether or no I would talk openly 
(in an open way)
with Kurtz ; but 
before I could come to any conclusion 
(a position or opinion or judgment reached after consideration)

it occurred to me that my speech or my silence , indeed any action 
(something done (usually as opposed to something said))

of mine , would be a mere futility 
(uselessness as a consequence of having no practical result)

. What did it matter what any one knew or ignored 
(refuse to acknowledge)
? What 
did it matter who was manager ? One gets 
(a return on a shot that seemed impossible to reach and would normally have resulted in a point for the opponent)

sometimes such a flash of insight 
(clear or deep perception of a situation)
. The 
essentials 
(anything indispensable)
of this affair lay deep under the surface , 
beyond my reach , and beyond my power of meddling 
(intrude in other people's affairs or business; interfere unwantedly)

. `` Towards the evening of the second day we judged ourselves about eight miles 
from Kurtz 's station . I wanted to push on ; but the manager looked grave , and 
told me the navigation up there was so dangerous that it would be advisable 
(worthy of being recommended or suggested; prudent or wise)

, the sun being very low already , to wait where we were till next morning . Moreover 
, he pointed 
(indicate a place, direction, person, or thing; either spatially or figuratively)

out that if the warning to approach cautiously were to be followed , we must approach 
in daylight 
(the time after sunrise and before sunset while it is light outside)

-- not at dusk or in the dark . This was sensible enough . Eight miles meant nearly 
three hours ' steaming for us , and I could also see suspicious 
(openly distrustful and unwilling to confide)

ripples 
(a small wave on the surface of a liquid)
at the upper end of the reach 
. Nevertheless , I was annoyed beyond expression at the delay 
(time during which some action is awaited)

, and most unreasonably 
(not in a reasonable or intelligent manner)
, too , since 
one night more could not matter much after so many months . As we had plenty of 
wood , and caution 
(the trait of being cautious; being attentive to possible danger)

was the word , I brought up in the middle of the stream . The reach was narrow , 
straight , with high sides like a railway cutting . The dusk came gliding 
(move smoothly and effortlessly)

into it long before the sun had set . The current ran smooth 
(the act of smoothing)

and swift , but a dumb immobility 
(remaining in place)
sat on the banks . The living 
trees , lashed 
(beat severely with a whip or rod)
together by the creepers 
(any plant (as ivy or periwinkle) that grows by creeping)

and every living bush of the undergrowth 
(the brush (small trees and bushes and ferns etc.) growing beneath taller trees in a wood or forest)

, might have been changed into stone , even to the slenderest 
(being of delicate or slender build)

twig , to the lightest 
(of comparatively little physical weight or density)
leaf 
. It was not sleep -- it seemed unnatural 
(not in accordance with or determined by nature; contrary to nature)

, like a state of trance 
(a psychological state induced by (or as if induced by) a magical incantation)

. Not the faintest sound of any kind could be heard . You looked on amazed 
(affect with wonder)

, and began to suspect yourself of being deaf -- then the night came suddenly , 
and struck you blind as well . About three in the morning some large fish 
(any of various mostly cold-blooded aquatic vertebrates usually having scales and breathing through gills)

leaped , and the loud splash 
(the sound like water splashing)
made me jump as though 
a gun had been fired . When the sun rose there was a white fog , very warm and clammy 
, and more blinding than the night . It did not shift or drive ; it was just there 
, standing all round you like something solid . At eight or nine , perhaps , it 
lifted as a shutter lifts 
(the act of giving temporary assistance)
. We had a glimpse 
of the towering multitude 
(a large indefinite number)
of trees , of the immense 
matted jungle , with the blazing 
(shine brightly and intensively)
little ball of 
the sun hanging over it -- all perfectly still -- and then the white shutter came 
down again , smoothly 
(with no problems or difficulties)
, as if sliding 
(move obliquely or sideways, usually in an uncontrolled manner)

in greased 
(smeared with oil or grease to reduce friction)
grooves 
(a long narrow furrow cut either by a natural process (such as erosion) or by a tool (as e.g. a groove in a phonograph record))

. I ordered the chain , which we had begun to heave 
(utter a sound, as with obvious effort)

in , to be paid out again . Before it stopped running with a muffled 
(conceal or hide)

rattle 
(a rapid series of short loud sounds (as might be heard with a stethoscope in some types of respiratory disorders))

, a cry , a very loud cry , as of infinite 
(having no limits or boundaries in time or space or extent or magnitude)

desolation , soared 
(rise rapidly)
slowly in the opaque air . It ceased . A complaining 
clamour 
(loud and persistent outcry from many people)
, modulated 
(change the key of, in music)

in savage discords 
(lack of agreement or harmony)
, filled our ears . The sheer 
unexpectedness 
(extraordinariness by virtue of being unexpected)
of it made my 
hair stir under my cap . I do n't know how it struck the others : to me it seemed 
as though the mist itself had screamed 
(utter a sudden loud cry)
, so suddenly 
, and apparently from all sides at once , did this tumultuous 
(characterized by unrest or disorder or insubordination)

and mournful uproar arise . It culminated 
(end, especially to reach a final or climactic stage)

in a hurried 
(moving rapidly or performed quickly or in great haste)
outbreak of 
almost intolerably 
(to an unacceptable degree)
excessive shrieking 
(sharp piercing cry)

, which stopped short , leaving us stiffened 
(become stiff or stiffer)
in a variety 
(a collection containing a variety of sorts of things)

of silly attitudes , and obstinately 
(in a stubborn unregenerate manner)
listening 
to the nearly as appalling and excessive silence . 'Good God ! What is the meaning 
-- ' stammered 
(speak haltingly)
at my elbow one of the pilgrims -- a little fat 
man , with sandy hair and red whiskers 
(the hair growing on the lower part of a man's face)

, who wore sidespring boots , and pink pyjamas 
(a pair of loose trousers tied by a drawstring around the waist; worn by men and women in some Asian countries)

tucked 
(fit snugly into)
into his socks 
(hosiery consisting of a cloth covering for the foot; worn inside the shoe; reaches to between the ankle and the knee)

. Two others remained open-mouthed a while minute , then dashed 
(run or move very quickly or hastily)

into the little cabin 
(small room on a ship or boat where people sleep)
, to rush 
out incontinently and stand darting 
(move along rapidly and lightly; skim or dart)

scared 
(cause fear in)
glances 
(a quick look)
, with Winchesters at 'ready ' in 
their hands . What we could see was just the steamer we were on , her outlines 
(the line that appears to bound an object)

blurred as though she had been on the point of dissolving 
(become weaker)
, and 
a misty strip 
(a relatively long narrow piece of something)
of water , perhaps 
two feet broad , around her -- and that was all . The rest of the world was nowhere 
, as far as our eyes and ears were concerned 
(be relevant to)
. Just nowhere . 
Gone , disappeared 
(get lost, as without warning or explanation)
; swept off without 
leaving a whisper or a shadow behind . `` I went forward , and ordered the chain 
to be hauled in short , so as to be ready to trip the anchor and move the steamboat 
at once if necessary . 'Will they attack ? ' whispered an awed 
(inspire awe in)

voice . 'We will be all butchered 
(kill (animals) usually for food consumption)

in this fog , ' murmured another . The faces twitched 
(make an uncontrolled, short, jerky motion)

with the strain , the hands trembled 
(move or jerk quickly and involuntarily up and down or sideways)

slightly , the eyes forgot to wink . It was very curious to see the contrast 
(the opposition or dissimilarity of things that are compared)

of expressions 
(the feelings expressed on a person's face)
of the white men and 
of the black fellows of our crew , who were as much strangers 
(anyone who does not belong in the environment in which they are found)

to that part of the river as we , though their homes were only eight hundred miles 
away . The whites 
(a member of the Caucasoid race)
, of course greatly 
(to an extraordinary extent or degree)

discomposed 
(cause to lose one's composure)
, had besides a curious look of being 
painfully shocked 
(surprise greatly; knock someone's socks off)
by such an outrageous 
(grossly offensive to decency or morality; causing horror)

row . The others had an alert 
(condition of heightened watchfulness or preparation for action)

, naturally interested expression ; but their faces were essentially 
(in essence; at bottom or by one's (or its) very nature)

quiet , even those of the one or two who grinned 
(to draw back the lips and reveal the teeth, in a smile, grimace, or snarl)

as they hauled at the chain . Several exchanged short , grunting phrases 
(an expression consisting of one or more words forming a grammatical constituent of a sentence)

, which seemed to settle the matter to their satisfaction 
(the contentment one feels when one has fulfilled a desire, need, or expectation)

. Their headman 
(an executioner who beheads the condemned person)
, a young , broad-chested 
black , severely draped in dark-blue 
(of a dark shade of blue)
fringed cloths 
(artifact made by weaving or felting or knitting or crocheting natural or synthetic fibers)

, with fierce nostrils and his hair all done up artfully 
(in an artful manner)

in oily ringlets 
(a round shape formed by a series of concentric circles (as formed by leaves or flower petals))

, stood near me . 'Aha ! ' I said , just for good fellowship 
(an association of people who share common beliefs or activities)

's sake . 'Catch 'im , ' he snapped , with a bloodshot widening 
(become broader or wider or more extensive)

of his eyes and a flash of sharp 
((of something seen or heard) clearly defined)

teeth -- 'catch 'im . Give 'im to us . ' 'To you , eh ? ' I asked ; 'what would 
you do with them ? ' 'Eat 'im ! ' he said curtly 
(in a curt, abrupt and discourteous manner)

, and , leaning his elbow on the rail , looked out into the fog in a dignified 
(having or expressing dignity; especially formality or stateliness in bearing or appearance)

and profoundly 
(to a great depth psychologically)
pensive 
(deeply or seriously thoughtful; )

attitude . I would no doubt have been properly 
(in the right manner)
horrified 
(fill with apprehension or alarm; cause to be unpleasantly surprised)

, had it not occurred to me that he and his chaps must be very hungry : that they 
must have been growing increasingly 
(advancing in amount or intensity)
hungry for 
at least this month past . They had been engaged for six months ( I do n't think 
a single one of them had any clear idea of time , as we at the end of countless 
ages have . They still belonged to the beginnings of time -- had no inherited 
(obtain from someone after their death)

experience to teach them as it were ) , and of course , as long as there was a piece 
of paper written 
(produce a literary work)
over in accordance 
(concurrence of opinion)

with some farcical law or other made down the river , it did n't enter anybody 's 
head to trouble how they would live . Certainly they had brought with them some 
rotten hippo-meat , which could n't have lasted 
(persist for a specified period of time)

very long , anyway , even if the pilgrims had n't , in the midst of a shocking hullabaloo 
(disturbance usually in protest)

, thrown a considerable quantity of it overboard . It looked like a high-handed 
(given to haughty disregard of others)

proceeding ; but it was really a case of legitimate self-defence 
(the act of defending yourself)

. You ca n't breathe dead hippo waking 
(be awake, be alert, be there)
, sleeping 
, and eating 
(take in solid food)
, and at the same time keep your precarious 
(affording no ease or reassurance)

grip on existence . Besides that , they had given them every week three pieces of 
brass 
(an alloy of copper and zinc)
wire 
(ligament made of metal and used to fasten things or make cages or fences etc)

, each about nine inches long ; and the theory was they were to buy their provisions 
(a stock or supply of foods)

with that currency 
(the metal or paper medium of exchange that is presently used)

in riverside villages . You can see how _that_ worked 
(exert oneself by doing mental or physical work for a purpose or out of necessity)

. There were either no villages , or the people were hostile 
(characterized by enmity or ill will)

, or the director , who like the rest of us fed out of tins 
(a silvery malleable metallic element that resists corrosion; used in many alloys and to coat other metals to prevent corrosion; obtained chiefly from cassiterite where it occurs as tin oxide)

, with an occasional 
(occurring from time to time)
old he-goat thrown in , did 
n't want to stop the steamer for some more or less recondite 
(difficult to penetrate; incomprehensible to one of ordinary understanding or knowledge)

reason . So , unless they swallowed 
(pass through the esophagus as part of eating or drinking)

the wire itself , or made loops of it to snare 
(catch in or as if in a trap)
the 
fishes 
(any of various mostly cold-blooded aquatic vertebrates usually having scales and breathing through gills)

with , I do n't see what good their extravagant salary 
(something that remunerates)

could be to them . I must say it was paid with a regularity 
(a property of polygons: the property of having equal sides and equal angles)

worthy of a large and honourable 
(worthy of being honored; entitled to honor and respect)

trading company 
(an institution created to conduct business)
. For the rest , the 
only thing to eat -- though it did n't look eatable 
(suitable for use as food)

in the least -- I saw in their possession was a few lumps 
(a compact mass)
of some 
stuff like half-cooked dough , of a dirty lavender 
(any of various Old World aromatic shrubs or subshrubs with usually mauve or blue flowers; widely cultivated)

colour , they kept wrapped 
(arrange or fold as a cover or protection)
in leaves 
, and now and then swallowed a piece of , but so small that it seemed done more 
for the looks of the thing than for any serious purpose of sustenance 
(a source of materials to nourish the body)

. Why in the name of all the gnawing devils of hunger they did n't go for us -- 
they were thirty to five -- and have a good tuck-in for once , amazes 
(affect with wonder)

me now when I think of it . They were big powerful 
(having great power or force or potency or effect)

men , with not much capacity to weigh 
(have a certain weight)
the consequences 
(a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon)

, with courage , with strength , even yet , though their skins 
(a natural protective body covering and site of the sense of touch)

were no longer glossy 
(a magazine printed on good quality paper)
and their muscles 
(one of the contractile organs of the body)

no longer hard . And I saw that something restraining 
(keep under control; keep in check)

, one of those human secrets that baffle 
(a flat plate that controls or directs the flow of fluid or energy)

probability 
(a measure of how likely it is that some event will occur; a number expressing the ratio of favorable cases to the whole number of cases possible)

, had come into play there . I looked at them with a swift quickening 
(move faster)

of interest -- not because it occurred to me I might be eaten 
(take in solid food)

by them before very long , though I own to you that just then I perceived -- in 
a new light , as it were -- how unwholesome 
(detrimental to physical or moral well-being)

the pilgrims looked , and I hoped 
(expect and wish)
, yes , I positively 
(extremely)

hoped , that my aspect was not so -- what shall I say ? -- so -- unappetizing : 
a touch of fantastic vanity 
(feelings of excessive pride)
which fitted 
(be agreeable or acceptable to)

well with the dream-sensation that pervaded 
(spread or diffuse through)
all my 
days at that time . Perhaps I had a little fever , too . One ca n't live with one 
's finger everlastingly 
(for a limitless time)
on one 's pulse . I had often 'a 
little fever , ' or a little touch of other things -- the playful 
(full of fun and high spirits)

paw-strokes of the wilderness , the preliminary 
(denoting an action or event preceding or in preparation for something more important; designed to orient or acquaint with a situation before proceeding)

trifling 
(the deliberate act of delaying and playing instead of working)
before 
the more serious onslaught 
(a sudden and severe onset of trouble)
which came in 
due 
(owed and payable immediately or on demand)
course . Yes ; I looked at them 
as you would on any human being , with a curiosity of their impulses 
(an instinctive motive)

, motives 
(the psychological feature that arouses an organism to action toward a desired goal; the reason for the action; that which gives purpose and direction to behavior)

, capacities 
(capability to perform or produce)
, weaknesses 
(a flaw or weak point)

, when brought to the test 
(trying something to find out about it)
of an inexorable 
(not to be placated or appeased or moved by entreaty)

physical necessity . Restraint ! What possible restraint 
(the act of controlling by restraining someone or something)

? Was it superstition 
(an irrational belief arising from ignorance or fear)
, disgust 
, patience , fear -- or some kind of primitive 
(belonging to an early stage of technical development; characterized by simplicity and (often) crudeness)

honour 
(the state of being honored)
? No fear can stand up to hunger , no patience 
can wear it out , disgust simply does not exist 
(have an existence, be extant)

where hunger is ; and as to superstition , beliefs , and what you may call principles 
(a basic generalization that is accepted as true and that can be used as a basis for reasoning or conduct)

, they are less than chaff 
(material consisting of seed coverings and small pieces of stem or leaves that have been separated from the seeds)

in a breeze 
(a slight wind (usually refreshing))
. Do n't you know the devilry 
(wicked and cruel behavior)

of lingering 
(remain present although waning or gradually dying)
starvation , its 
exasperating torment 
(unbearable physical pain)
, its black thoughts , its sombre 
and brooding ferocity 
(the property of being wild or turbulent)
? Well , I do . 
It takes 
(carry out)
a man all his inborn strength to fight hunger properly . It 
's really easier to face bereavement , dishonour , and the perdition 
((Christianity) the abode of Satan and the forces of evil; where sinners suffer eternal punishment)

of one 's soul -- than this kind of prolonged 
(relatively long in duration; tediously protracted)

hunger . Sad , but true . And these chaps , too , had no earthly reason for any 
kind of scruple 
(a unit of apothecary weight equal to 20 grains)
. Restraint ! 
I would just as soon have expected restraint from a hyena 
(doglike nocturnal mammal of Africa and southern Asia that feeds chiefly on carrion)

prowling 
(move about in or as if in a predatory manner)
amongst the corpses 
(the dead body of a human being)

of a battlefield 
(a region where a battle is being (or has been) fought)
. But 
there was the fact facing 
(deal with (something unpleasant) head on)
me -- the 
fact dazzling 
(to cause someone to lose clear vision, especially from intense light)

, to be seen , like the foam 
(a mass of small bubbles formed in or on a liquid)

on the depths of the sea , like a ripple 
(a small wave on the surface of a liquid)

on an unfathomable 
(of depth; not capable of being sounded or measured)
enigma 
, a mystery greater -- when I thought of it -- than the curious , inexplicable 
(incapable of being explained or accounted for)

note of desperate 
(a person who is frightened and in need of help)
grief 
(intense sorrow caused by loss of a loved one (especially by death))

in this savage clamour that had swept by us on the river-bank , behind the blind 
whiteness 
(the quality or state of the achromatic color of greatest lightness (bearing the least resemblance to black))

of the fog . `` Two pilgrims were quarrelling 
(have a disagreement over something)

in hurried whispers 
(speaking softly without vibration of the vocal cords)
as to 
which bank . 'Left . ' 'no , no ; how can you ? Right , right , of course . ' 'It 
is very serious , ' said the manager 's voice behind me ; 'I would be desolated 
(leave someone who needs or counts on you; leave in the lurch)

if anything should happen to Mr. Kurtz before we came up . ' I looked at him , and 
had not the slightest 
((quantifier used with mass nouns) small in quantity or degree; not much or almost none or (with `a') at least some)

doubt he was sincere . He was just the kind of man who would wish to preserve 
(keep or maintain in unaltered condition; cause to remain or last)

appearances 
(outward or visible aspect of a person or thing)
. That was his restraint 
. But when he muttered something about going on at once , I did not even take the 
trouble to answer him . I knew , and he knew , that it was impossible . Were we 
to let go our hold of the bottom , we would be absolutely in the air -- in space 
. We would n't be able to tell where we were going to -- whether up or down stream 
, or across -- till we fetched against one bank or the other -- and then we would 
n't know at first which it was . Of course I made no move . I had no mind for a 
smash-up . You couldn't imagine a more deadly place for a shipwreck 
(a wrecked ship (or a part of one))

. Whether we drowned at once or not , we were sure to perish 
(pass from physical life and lose all bodily attributes and functions necessary to sustain life)

speedily in one way or another . 'I authorize you to take all the risks 
(a source of danger; a possibility of incurring loss or misfortune)

, ' he said , after a short silence . 'I refuse 
(food that is discarded (as from a kitchen))

to take any , ' I said shortly 
(for a short time)
; which was just the answer he 
expected , though its tone might have surprised him . 'Well , I must defer 
(hold back to a later time)

to your judgment 
(an opinion formed by judging something)
. You are captain , ' 
he said with marked civility 
(formal or perfunctory politeness)
. I turned my shoulder 
to him in sign of my appreciation 
(understanding of the nature or meaning or quality or magnitude of something)

, and looked into the fog . How long would it last ? It was the most hopeless lookout 
. The approach to this Kurtz grubbing for ivory in the wretched bush was beset 
(annoy continually or chronically)

by as many dangers 
(the condition of being susceptible to harm or injury)
as though 
he had been an enchanted 
(hold spellbound)
princess 
(a female member of a royal family other than the queen (especially the daughter of a sovereign))

sleeping in a fabulous 
(extremely pleasing)
castle 
(a large and stately mansion)

. 'Will they attack , do you think ? ' asked the manager , in a confidential tone 
. `` I did not think they would attack , for several obvious reasons 
(a rational motive for a belief or action)

. The thick fog was one . If they left the bank in their canoes they would get lost 
in it , as we would be if we attempted 
(make an effort or attempt)
to move . Still 
, I had also judged the jungle of both banks quite impenetrable -- and yet eyes 
were in it , eyes that had seen us . The riverside bushes 
(provide with a bushing)

were certainly very thick ; but the undergrowth behind was evidently penetrable 
(admitting of penetration or passage into or through)

. However , during the short lift I had seen no canoes anywhere in the reach -- 
certainly not abreast of the steamer . But what made the idea of attack inconceivable 
(totally unlikely)

to me was the nature 
(the essential qualities or characteristics by which something is recognized)

of the noise -- of the cries 
(a loud utterance; often in protest or opposition)

we had heard . They had not the fierce character boding 
(indicate by signs)
immediate 
hostile intention . Unexpected , wild , and violent as they had been , they had 
given me an irresistible 
(impossible to resist; overpowering)
impression of sorrow 
. The glimpse of the steamboat had for some reason filled those savages with unrestrained 
(not subject to restraint)

grief . The danger , if any , I expounded 
(add details, as to an account or idea; clarify the meaning of and discourse in a learned way, usually in writing)

, was from our proximity 
(the property of being close together)
to a great human 
passion let loose . Even 
(used as an intensive especially to indicate something unexpected)

extreme grief may ultimately 
(as the end result of a succession or process)
vent 
itself in violence -- but more generally takes the form of apathy ... . '' You should 
have seen the pilgrims stare ! They had no heart to grin , or even to revile 
(spread negative information about)

me : but I believe they thought me gone mad -- with fright , maybe . I delivered 
(deliver (a speech, oration, or idea))

a regular lecture 
(a speech that is open to the public)
. My dear boys 
(a youthful male person)

, it was no good bothering . Keep a lookout ? Well , you may guess I watched the 
fog for the signs of lifting as a cat watches a mouse 
(any of numerous small rodents typically resembling diminutive rats having pointed snouts and small ears on elongated bodies with slender usually hairless tails)

; but for anything else our eyes were of no more use to us than if we had been buried 
(cover from sight)

miles deep in a heap of cotton-wool . It felt like it , too -- choking 
(breathe with great difficulty, as when experiencing a strong emotion)

, warm , stifling 
(conceal or hide)
. Besides , all I said , though it sounded 
extravagant , was absolutely true to fact . What we afterwards alluded to as an 
attack was really an attempt at repulse 
(an instance of driving away or warding off)

. The action was very far from being aggressive 
(having or showing determination and energetic pursuit of your ends; positive in his convictions")

-- it was not even defensive 
(intended or appropriate for defending against or deterring aggression or attack)

, in the usual sense : it was undertaken 
(enter upon an activity or enterprise)

under the stress 
(the relative prominence of a syllable or musical note (especially with regard to stress or pitch))

of desperation , and in its essence was purely 
(restricted to something)
protective 
(intended or adapted to afford protection of some kind)

. `` It developed itself , I should say , two hours after the fog lifted , and its 
commencement 
(the time at which something is supposed to begin)
was at a spot , 
roughly 
((of quantities) imprecise but fairly close to correct)
speaking , about 
a mile and a half below Kurtz 's station . We had just floundered 
(walk with great difficulty)

and flopped round a bend , when I saw an islet 
(a small island)
, a mere grassy 
hummock 
(a small natural hill)
of bright green , in the middle of the stream . 
It was the only thing of the kind ; but as we opened the reach more , I perceived 
it was the head of a long sand-bank , or rather of a chain of shallow patches stretching 
(occupy a large, elongated area)

down the middle of the river . They were discoloured 
(change color, often in an undesired manner)

, just awash 
(covered with water)
, and the whole lot was seen just under the water 
, exactly as a man 's backbone is seen running down the middle of his back under 
the skin . Now , as far as I did see , I could go to the right or to the left of 
this . I did n't know either channel , of course . The banks looked pretty well 
alike 
(equally)
, the depth 
(the extent downward or backward or inward)
appeared 
the same ; but as I had been informed the station was on the west side , I naturally 
headed for the western 
(a film about life in the western United States during the period of exploration and development)

passage . `` No sooner had we fairly entered 
(to come or go into)
it than I became 
aware it was much narrower 
(not wide)
than I had supposed . To the left of us there 
was the long uninterrupted shoal 
(a sandbank in a stretch of water that is visible at low tide)

, and to the right a high , steep bank heavily 
(to a considerable degree)
overgrown 
(grow too large)

with bushes . Above the bush the trees stood in serried ranks 
(a row or line of people (especially soldiers or police) standing abreast of one another)

. The twigs 
(a small branch or division of a branch (especially a terminal division); usually applied to branches of the current or preceding year)

overhung 
(project over)
the current thickly 
(spoken with poor articulation as if with a thick tongue)

, and from distance to distance a large limb of some tree projected rigidly 
(in a rigid manner)

over the stream . It was then well on in the afternoon , the face of the forest 
was gloomy , and a broad strip of shadow had already fallen on the water . In this 
shadow we steamed 
(travel by means of steam power)
up -- very slowly , as you may 
imagine . I sheered 
(turn sharply; change direction abruptly)
her well inshore 
(toward the shore)

-- the water being deepest near the bank , as the sounding-pole informed me . `` 
One of my hungry and forbearing 
(refrain from doing)
friends was sounding 
(appear in a certain way)

in the bows just below me . This steamboat was exactly like a decked scow 
(any of various flat-bottomed boats with sloping ends)

. On the deck , there were two little teakwood 
(hard strong durable yellowish-brown wood of teak trees; resistant to insects and to warping; used for furniture and in shipbuilding)

houses , with doors and windows . The boiler was in the fore-end , and the machinery 
right astern . Over the whole there was a light roof 
(a protective covering that covers or forms the top of a building)

, supported 
(give moral or psychological support, aid, or courage to)
on stanchions 
(any vertical post or rod used as a support)

. The funnel 
(a conical shape with a wider and a narrower opening at the two ends)

projected through that roof , and in front of the funnel a small cabin built of 
light planks served for a pilot-house . It contained 
(include or contain; have as a component)

a couch , two camp-stools , a loaded 
(fill or place a load on)
Martini-Henry leaning 
in one corner , a tiny table , and the steering-wheel . It had a wide door in front 
and a broad shutter at each side . All these were always thrown open , of course 
. I spent my days perched 
(sit, as on a branch)
up there on the extreme fore-end 
of that roof , before the door . At night I slept , or tried to , on the couch . 
An athletic 
(relating to or befitting athletics or athletes)
black belonging 
(be owned by; be in the possession of)

to some coast tribe 
(a social division of (usually preliterate) people)
and educated 
(give an education to)

by my poor predecessor , was the helmsman 
(the person who steers a ship)
. He sported 
(wear or display in an ostentatious or proud manner)

a pair of brass earrings 
(jewelry to ornament the ear; usually clipped to the earlobe or fastened through a hole in the lobe)

, wore a blue cloth wrapper from the waist to the ankles 
(a gliding joint between the distal ends of the tibia and fibula and the proximal end of the talus)

, and thought all the world of himself . He was the most unstable 
(lacking stability or fixity or firmness)

kind of fool I had ever seen . He steered 
(direct the course; determine the direction of travelling)

with no end of a swagger 
(an itinerant Australian laborer who carries his personal belongings in a bundle as he travels around in search of work)

while you were by ; but if he lost sight of you , he became instantly 
(without delay or hesitation; with no time intervening)

the prey 
(a person who is the aim of an attack (especially a victim of ridicule or exploitation) by some hostile person or influence)

of an abject funk 
(a state of nervous depression)
, and would let that cripple 
of a steamboat get the upper hand of him in a minute . `` I was looking down at 
the sounding-pole , and feeling much annoyed to see at each try a little more of 
it stick out of that river , when I saw my poleman give up on the business suddenly 
, and stretch himself flat on the deck , without even taking the trouble to haul 
(draw slowly or heavily)

his pole in . He kept hold on it though , and it trailed in the water . At the same 
time the fireman , whom I could also see below me , sat down abruptly 
(quickly and without warning)

before his furnace 
(an enclosed chamber in which heat is produced to heat buildings, destroy refuse, smelt or refine ores, etc.)

and ducked 
(to move (the head or body) quickly downwards or away)
his head . I 
was amazed . Then I had to look at the river mighty quick , because there was a 
snag in the fairway . Sticks 
(an implement consisting of a length of wood)
, little 
sticks , were flying about -- thick : they were whizzing 
(make a soft swishing sound)

before my nose , dropping 
(let fall to the ground)
below me , striking 
(deliver a sharp blow, as with the hand, fist, or weapon)

behind me against my pilot-house . All this time the river , the shore , the woods 
, were very quiet -- perfectly quiet . I could only hear the heavy splashing thump 
of the stern-wheel and the patter 
(plausible glib talk (especially useful to a salesperson))

of these things . We cleared the snag clumsily 
(in a clumsy manner)
. Arrows , 
by Jove ! We were being shot at ! I stepped in quickly to close the shutter on the 
landside 
(component consisting of a side piece opposite the moldboard)
. That fool-helmsman 
, his hands on the spokes 
(support consisting of a radial member of a wheel joining the hub to the rim)

, was lifting his knees high , stamping his feet , champing 
(chafe at the bit, like horses)

his mouth , like a reined-in horse . Confound him ! And we were staggering 
(walk as if unable to control one's movements)

within ten feet of the bank . I had to lean right out to swing 
(a state of steady vigorous action that is characteristic of an activity)

the heavy shutter , and I saw a face amongst the leaves on the level 
(a position on a scale of intensity or amount or quality)

with my own , looking at me very fierce and steady ; and then suddenly , as though 
a veil 
(a garment that covers the head and face)
had been removed 
(remove something concrete, as by lifting, pushing, or taking off, or remove something abstract)

from my eyes , I made out , deep in the tangled 
(force into some kind of situation, condition, or course of action)

gloom , naked breasts , arms , legs , glaring 
(look at with a fixed gaze)
eyes 
-- the bush was swarming 
(be teeming, be abuzz)
with human limbs in movement , 
glistening of bronze 
(an alloy of copper and tin and sometimes other elements; also any copper-base alloy containing other elements in place of tin)

colour . The twigs shook , swayed , and rustled 
(make a dry crackling sound)
, 
the arrows 
(a mark to indicate a direction or relation)
flew out of them , and 
then the shutter came to . 'Steer her straight , ' I said to the helmsman . He held 
his head rigid , face forward ; but his eyes rolled , he kept on lifting and setting 
down his feet gently , his mouth foamed 
(become bubbly or frothy or foaming)
a 
little . 'Keep quiet ! ' I said in a fury 
(a feeling of intense anger)
. I might 
just as well have ordered a tree not to sway 
(move back and forth or sideways)

in the wind . I darted 
(move along rapidly and lightly; skim or dart)
out . Below 
me there was a great scuffle of feet on the iron deck ; confused 
(mistake one thing for another)

exclamations 
(an abrupt excited utterance)
; a voice screamed , 'Can you turn back 
? ' I caught sight of a V-shaped 
(shaped in the form of the letter V)
ripple on 
the water ahead . What ? Another snag ! A fusillade 
(rapid simultaneous discharge of firearms)

burst out under my feet . The pilgrims had opened with their Winchesters 
(a city in southern England; administrative center of Hampshire)

, and were simply squirting 
(cause to come out in a squirt)
lead into that bush 
. A deuce of a lot of smoke came up and drove slowly forward . I swore at it . Now 
I could n't see the ripple or the snag either . I stood in the doorway , peering 
(look searchingly)

, and the arrows came in swarms 
(a moving crowd)
. They might have been poisoned 
(spoil as if by poison)

, but they looked as though they would n't kill a cat . The bush began to howl . 
Our wood-cutters raised 
(raise the level or amount of something)
a warlike whoop 
(a loud hooting cry of exultation or excitement)

; the report of a rifle just at my back deafened 
(be unbearably loud)
me . I glanced 
over my shoulder , and the pilot-house was yet full of noise and smoke when I made 
a dash 
(distinctive and stylish elegance)
at the wheel 
(a simple machine consisting of a circular frame with spokes (or a solid disc) that can rotate on a shaft or axle (as in vehicles or other machines))

. The fool-nigger had dropped everything , to throw the shutter open and let off 
that Martini-Henry . He stood before the wide opening , glaring , and I yelled 
(utter a sudden loud cry)

at him to come back , while I straightened 
(straighten up or out; make straight)

the sudden twist 
(an unforeseen development)
out of that steamboat . There was 
no room to turn even if I had wanted to , the snag was somewhere very near ahead 
in that confounded smoke , there was no time to lose , so I just crowded her into 
the bank -- right into the bank , where I knew the water was deep . `` We tore slowly 
along the overhanging bushes in a whirl of broken twigs and flying leaves . The 
fusillade below stopped short , as I had foreseen 
(realize beforehand)
it would 
when the squirts 
(someone who is small and insignificant)
got empty . I threw my 
head back to a glinting whizz 
(someone who is dazzlingly skilled in any field)

that traversed 
(travel across or pass over)
the pilot-house , in at one shutter-hole 
and out at the other . Looking past that mad helmsman , who was shaking 
(move or cause to move back and forth)

the empty rifle and yelling 
(utter a sudden loud cry)
at the shore , I saw vague 
forms 
(the phonological or orthographic sound or appearance of a word that can be used to describe or identify something)

of men running bent double , leaping 
(move forward by leaps and bounds)
, gliding 
, distinct , incomplete 
(not complete or total; not completed)
, evanescent . Something 
big appeared in the air before the shutter , the rifle went overboard , and the 
man stepped back swiftly 
(in a swift manner)
, looked at me over his shoulder in 
an extraordinary , profound , familiar 
(well known or easily recognized)
manner 
, and fell upon my feet . The side of his head hit the wheel twice , and the end 
of what appeared a long cane 
(a stick that people can lean on to help them walk)

clattered 
(make a rattling sound)
round and knocked 
(deliver a sharp blow or push :"He knocked the glass clear across the room")

over a little camp-stool . It looked as though after wrenching 
(twist or pull violently or suddenly, especially so as to remove (something) from that to which it is attached or from where it originates)

that thing from somebody ashore he had lost his balance 
(a state of equilibrium)

in the effort . The thin smoke had blown 
(exhale hard)
away , we were clear of 
the snag , and looking ahead I could see that in another hundred yards 
(a unit of length equal to 3 feet; defined as 91.44 centimeters; originally taken to be the average length of a stride)

or so I would be free to sheer off , away from the bank ; but my feet felt so very 
warm and wet that I had to look down . The man had rolled on his back and stared 
straight up at me ; both his hands clutched 
(take hold of; grab)
that cane . It 
was the shaft 
(a line that forms the length of an arrow pointer)
of a spear that 
, either thrown or lunged 
(make a thrusting forward movement)
through the opening 
, had caught him in the side , just below the ribs ; the blade had gone in out of 
sight , after making a frightful gash 
(a wound made by cutting)
; my shoes were 
full ; a pool 
(an excavation that is (usually) filled with water)
of blood lay 
very still , gleaming 
(be shiny, as if wet)
dark-red under the wheel ; his eyes 
shone with an amazing lustre 
(a surface coating for ceramics or porcelain)
. The 
fusillade burst out again . He looked at me anxiously 
(with anxiety or apprehension)

, gripping 
(hold fast or firmly)
the spear like something precious , with an air 
of being afraid I would try to take it away from him . I had to make an effort to 
free my eyes from his gaze and attend to the steering . With one hand I felt above 
my head for the line of the steam whistle , and jerked out screech after screech 
hurriedly 
(in a hurried or hasty manner)
. The tumult of angry and warlike yells 
was checked 
(examine so as to determine accuracy, quality, or condition)
instantly 
, and then from the depths of the woods went out such a tremulous 
((of the voice) quivering as from weakness or fear)

and prolonged wail 
(a cry of sorrow and grief)
of mournful fear and utter despair 
as may be imagined to follow the flight of the last hope from the earth . There 
was a great commotion 
(a disorderly outburst or tumult)
in the bush ; the shower 
of arrows stopped , a few dropping shots 
(the act of firing a projectile)
rang 
out sharply -- then silence , in which the languid beat of the stern-wheel came 
plainly to my ears . I put the helm 
(steering mechanism for a vessel; a mechanical device by which a vessel is steered)

hard a-starboard at the moment when the pilgrim in pink pyjamas , very hot and agitated 
(try to stir up public opinion)

, appeared in the doorway . 'The manager sends me -- ' he began in an official 
(a worker who holds or is invested with an office)

tone , and stopped short . 'Good God ! ' he said , glaring at the wounded 
(cause injuries or bodily harm to)

man . `` We two whites stood over him , and his lustrous 
(made smooth and bright by or as if by rubbing; reflecting a sheen or glow)

and inquiring glance enveloped 
(enclose or enfold completely with or as if with a covering)

us both . I declare 
(state emphatically and authoritatively)
it looked as though 
he would presently put to us some questions in an understandable 
(capable of being apprehended or understood)

language 
(a systematic means of communicating by the use of sounds or conventional symbols)

; but he died without uttering a sound , without moving a limb , without twitching 
(a sudden muscle spasm; especially one caused by a nervous condition)

a muscle . Only in the very last moment , as though in response to some sign we 
could not see , to some whisper we could not hear , he frowned 
(look angry or sullen, wrinkle one's forehead, as if to signal disapproval)

heavily , and that frown gave to his black death-mask an inconceivably 
(to an inconceivable degree)

sombre , brooding , and menacing 
(pose a threat to; present a danger to)
expression 
. The lustre of inquiring glance faded swiftly into vacant glassiness . 'Can you 
steer 
(an indication of potential opportunity)
? ' I asked the agent eagerly 
(with eagerness; in an eager manner)

. He looked very dubious 
(fraught with uncertainty or doubt)
; but I made a grab 
at his arm , and he understood 
(know and comprehend the nature or meaning of)
at 
once I meant him to steer whether or no . To tell you the truth , I was morbidly 
(in a morbid manner or to a morbid degree)

anxious to change my shoes and socks . 'He is dead , ' murmured the fellow , immensely 
(to an exceedingly great extent or degree)

impressed . 'No doubt about it , ' said I , tugging like mad at the shoe-laces . 
'And by the way , I suppose Mr. Kurtz is dead as well by this time . ' `` For the 
moment that was the dominant 
(exercising influence or control)
thought . There 
was a sense of extreme disappointment , as though I had found out I had been striving 
(attempt by employing effort)

after something altogether without a substance 
(the real physical matter of which a person or thing consists)

. I could n't have been more disgusted 
(fill with distaste)
if I had travelled 
(change location; move, travel, or proceed, also metaphorically)

all this way for the sole purpose of talking with Mr. Kurtz . Talking with ... I 
flung one shoe overboard , and became aware that that was exactly what I had been 
looking forward to -- a talk with Kurtz . I made the strange discovery 
(the act of discovering something)

that I had never imagined him as doing 
(engage in)
, you know , but as discoursing 
(to consider or examine in speech or writing)

. I did n't say to myself , 'Now I will never see him , ' or 'Now I will never shake 
him by the hand , ' but , 'Now I will never hear him . ' The man presented himself 
as a voice . Not of course that I did not connect 
(connect, fasten, or put together two or more pieces)

him with some sort of action . Had n't I been told in all the tones 
(the quality of a person's voice)

of jealousy and admiration 
(a feeling of delighted approval and liking)
that he 
had collected , bartered 
(exchange goods without involving money)
, swindled 
(deprive of by deceit)

, or stolen 
(take without the owner's consent)
more ivory than all the other agents 
together ? That was not the point . The point was in his being a gifted creature 
, and that of all his gifts 
(something acquired without compensation)
the one that 
stood out preeminently 
(to a preeminent degree; with superiority or distinction above others; in a preeminent manner)

, that carried with it a sense of real presence 
(the state of being present; current existence)

, was his ability 
(the quality of being able to perform; a quality that permits or facilitates achievement or accomplishment)

to talk , his words -- the gift 
(something acquired without compensation)
of expression 
, the bewildering , the illuminating , the most exalted and the most contemptible 
(deserving of contempt or scorn)

, the pulsating stream of light , or the deceitful 
(intended to deceive)
flow 
(the motion characteristic of fluids (liquids or gases))

from the heart of an impenetrable darkness . `` The other shoe went flying unto 
the devil-god of that river . I thought , 'By Jove ! it 's all over . We are too 
late ; he has vanished -- the gift has vanished , by means of some spear , arrow 
(a mark to indicate a direction or relation)

, or club 
(a team of professional baseball players who play and travel together)

. I will never hear that chap speak after all ' -- and my sorrow had a startling 
extravagance 
(the quality of exceeding the appropriate limits of decorum or probability or truth)

of emotion 
(any strong feeling)
, even such as I had noticed in the howling 
(a long loud emotional utterance)

sorrow of these savages in the bush . I could n't have felt more of lonely desolation 
somehow , had I been robbed 
(take something away by force or without the consent of the owner)

of a belief or had missed 
(fail to perceive or to catch with the senses or the mind)

my destiny 
(an event (or a course of events) that will inevitably happen in the future)

in life ... . Why do you sigh in this beastly 
(in a beastly manner)
way , somebody 
? Absurd ? Well , absurd . Good Lord ! must n't a man ever -- Here , give me some 
tobacco. '' ... There was a pause of profound stillness , then a match flared 
(burn brightly)

, and Marlow 's lean face appeared , worn , hollow , with downward 
(extending or moving from a higher to a lower place)

folds and dropped eyelids , with an aspect of concentrated 
(make denser, stronger, or purer)

attention ; and as he took vigorous 
(characterized by forceful and energetic action or activity)

draws 
(a gully that is shallower than a ravine)
at his pipe , it seemed to retreat 
(pull back or move away or backward)

and advance 
(a movement forward)
out of the night in the regular flicker of tiny 
flame . The match went out . `` Absurd ! '' he cried . `` This is the worst of trying 
to tell ... . Here you all are , each moored 
(secure in or as if in a berth or dock)

with two good addresses 
((computer science) the code that identifies where a piece of information is stored)

, like a hulk with two anchors 
(a mechanical device that prevents a vessel from moving)

, a butcher round one corner , a policeman 
(a member of a police force)
round another 
, excellent appetites 
(a feeling of craving something)
, and temperature 
(the degree of hotness or coldness of a body or environment (corresponding to its molecular activity))

normal -- you hear -- normal from year 's end to year 's end . And you say , Absurd 
! Absurd be -- exploded 
(cause to burst with a violent release of energy)
! Absurd 
! My dear boys , what can you expect from a man who out of sheer nervousness 
(the anxious feeling you have when you have the jitters)

had just flung overboard a pair of new shoes ! Now I think of it , it is amazing 
I did not shed tears 
(the process of shedding tears (usually accompanied by sobs or other inarticulate sounds))

. I am , upon the whole , proud of my fortitude 
(strength of mind that enables one to endure adversity with courage)

. I was cut to the quick at the idea of having lost the inestimable 
(beyond calculation or measure)

privilege 
(a special advantage or immunity or benefit not enjoyed by all)
of listening 
to the gifted Kurtz . Of course I was wrong . The privilege was waiting for me . 
Oh , yes , I heard more than enough . And I was right , too . A voice . He was very 
little more than a voice . And I heard -- him -- it -- this voice -- other voices 
-- all of them were so little more than voices -- and the memory of that time itself 
lingers around me , impalpable 
(incapable of being perceived by the senses especially the sense of touch)

, like a dying vibration 
(the act of vibrating)
of one immense jabber 
(rapid and indistinct speech)

, silly , atrocious 
(shockingly brutal or cruel)
, sordid , savage , or simply 
mean , without any kind of sense . Voices 
(the distinctive quality or pitch or condition of a person's speech)

, voices -- even the girl herself -- now -- '' He was silent for a long time . `` 
I laid the ghost 
(a mental representation of some haunting experience)
of his gifts 
at last with a lie , '' he began , suddenly . `` Girl ! What ? Did I mention a girl 
? Oh , she is out of it -- completely . They -- the women , I mean -- are out of 
it -- should be out of it . We must help them to stay in that beautiful world of 
their own , lest ours gets worse . Oh , she had to be out of it . You should have 
heard the disinterred 
(dig up for reburial or for medical investigation; of dead bodies)

body of Mr. Kurtz saying , 'My Intended . ' You would have perceived directly 
(without deviation)

then how completely she was out of it . And the lofty frontal 
(an adornment worn on the forehead)

bone of Mr. Kurtz ! They say the hair goes on growing sometimes , but this -- ah 
-- specimen , was impressively 
(in an impressive manner)
bald . The wilderness 
had patted 
(pat or squeeze fondly or playfully, especially under the chin)
him 
on the head , and , behold 
(see with attention)
, it was like a ball -- an ivory 
ball ; it had caressed 
(touch or stroke lightly in a loving or endearing manner)

him , and -- lo ! -- he had withered 
(wither, as with a loss of moisture)
; it 
had taken him , loved 
(have a great affection or liking for)
him , embraced him 
, got into his veins 
(a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart)

, consumed 
(eat immoderately)
his flesh 
(the soft tissue of the body of a vertebrate: mainly muscle tissue and fat)

, and sealed his soul to its own by the inconceivable ceremonies of some devilish 
(showing the cunning or ingenuity or wickedness typical of a devil)

initiation . He was its spoiled 
(make a mess of, destroy or ruin)
and pampered 
(treat with excessive indulgence)

favourite 
(appealing to the general public)
. Ivory ? I should think so . Heaps 
of it , stacks 
(load or cover with stacks)
of it . The old mud shanty 
(small crude shelter used as a dwelling)

was bursting with it . You would think there was not a single tusk 
(a hard smooth ivory colored dentine that makes up most of the tusks of elephants and walruses)

left either above or below the ground in the whole country . 'Mostly fossil 
(characteristic of a fossil)

, ' the manager had remarked , disparagingly 
(in a disparaging manner)
. It was 
no more fossil than I am ; but they call it fossil when it is dug 
(an udder or breast or teat)

up . It appears these niggers do bury the tusks 
(a hard smooth ivory colored dentine that makes up most of the tusks of elephants and walruses)

sometimes -- but evidently they could n't bury this parcel 
(a wrapped container)

deep enough to save the gifted Mr. Kurtz from his fate . We filled the steamboat 
with it , and had to pile 
(arrange in stacks)
a lot on the deck . Thus he could 
see and enjoy as long as he could see , because the appreciation of this favour 
(a feeling of favorable regard)

had remained with him to the last . You should have heard him say , 'My ivory . 
' Oh , yes , I heard him . 'My Intended , my ivory , my station , my river , my 
-- ' everything belonged to him . It made me hold my breath in expectation 
(belief about (or mental picture of) the future)

of hearing the wilderness burst into a prodigious 
(so great in size or force or extent as to elicit awe)

peal 
(a deep prolonged sound (as of thunder or large bells))
of laughter 
(the sound of laughing)

that would shake the fixed 
(restore by replacing a part or putting together what is torn or broken)

stars in their places . Everything belonged to him -- but that was a trifle 
(a cold pudding made of layers of sponge cake spread with fruit or jelly; may be decorated with nuts, cream, or chocolate)

. The thing was to know what he belonged to , how many powers of darkness claimed 
(assert or affirm strongly; state to be true or existing)

him for their own . That was the reflection 
(a calm, lengthy, intent consideration)

that made you creepy all over . It was impossible -- it was not good for one either 
-- trying to imagine . He had taken a high seat amongst the devils of the land -- 
I mean literally 
(in a literal sense)
. You ca n't understand . How could you ? 
-- with solid pavement 
(the paved surface of a thoroughfare)
under your feet , 
surrounded by kind neighbours 
(a person who lives (or is located) near another)

ready to cheer 
(give encouragement to)
you or to fall on you , stepping 
(shift or move by taking a step)

delicately 
(in a delicate manner)
between the butcher and the policeman , in the 
holy 
(a sacred place of pilgrimage)
terror of scandal 
(disgraceful gossip about the private lives of other people)

and gallows and lunatic 
(insane and believed to be affected by the phases of the moon)

asylums 
(a shelter from danger or hardship)
-- how can you imagine what particular 
(unique or specific to a person or thing or category)

region 
(the extended spatial location of something)
of the first ages a man 's 
untrammelled feet may take him into by the way of solitude -- utter solitude without 
a policeman -- by the way of silence -- utter silence , where no warning voice of 
a kind neighbour 
(a person who lives (or is located) near another)
can be heard 
whispering of public 
(not private; open to or concerning the people as a whole)

opinion ? These little things make all the great difference . When they are gone 
you must fall back upon your own innate strength , upon your own capacity for faithfulness 
(the quality of being faithful)

. Of course you may be too much of a fool to go wrong -- too dull even to know you 
are being assaulted 
(attack someone physically or emotionally)
by the powers of 
darkness . I take it , no fool ever made a bargain for his soul with the devil ; 
the fool is too much of a fool , or the devil too much of a devil -- I do n't know 
which . Or you may be such a thunderingly exalted creature as to be altogether deaf 
and blind to anything but heavenly sights 
(catch sight of; to perceive with the eyes)

and sounds . Then the earth for you is only a standing place -- and whether to be 
like this is your loss or your gain I wo n't pretend to say . But most of us are 
neither one nor the other . The earth for us is a place to live in , where we must 
put up with sights , with sounds , with smells 
(the sensation that results when olfactory receptors in the nose are stimulated by particular chemicals in gaseous form)

, too , by Jove ! -- breathe dead hippo , so to speak , and not be contaminated 
(make impure)

. And there , do n't you see ? Your strength comes in , the faith 
(a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny)

in your ability for the digging of unostentatious 
(not ostentatious)
holes 
(an opening into or through something)

to bury the stuff in -- your power of devotion , not to yourself , but to an obscure 
, back-breaking business . And that's difficult enough . Mind , I am not trying 
to excuse or even explain -- I am trying to account to myself for -- for -- Mr. 
Kurtz -- for the shade of Mr. Kurtz . This initiated 
(bring into being)
wraith 
(a mental representation of some haunting experience)

from the back of Nowhere honoured 
(bestow honor or rewards upon)
me with its amazing 
confidence before it vanished altogether . This was because it could speak English 
to me . The original Kurtz had been educated partly 
(in part; in some degree; not wholly)

in England , and -- as he was good enough to say himself -- his sympathies were 
in the right place . His mother was half-English , his father was half-French . 
All Europe contributed 
(bestow a quality on)
to the making of Kurtz ; and by and 
by I learned that , most appropriately 
(in an appropriate manner)
, the International 
Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs had intrusted him with the making 
of a report , for its future guidance . And he had written it , too . I 've seen 
it . I 've read it . It was eloquent 
(expressing yourself readily, clearly, effectively)

, vibrating 
(shake, quiver, or throb; move back and forth rapidly, usually in an uncontrolled manner)

with eloquence 
(powerful and effective language)
, but too high-strung 
(being in a tense state)

, I think . Seventeen pages of close writing 
(the act of creating written works)

he had found time for ! But this must have been before his -- let us say -- nerves 
(an uneasy psychological state)

, went wrong , and caused him to preside 
(act as president)
at certain midnight 
(12 o'clock at night; the middle of the night)

dances 
(an artistic form of nonverbal communication)
ending with unspeakable 
(defying expression or description)

rites 
(an established ceremony prescribed by a religion)
, which -- as far as I 
reluctantly 
(with reluctance)
gathered from what I heard at various times -- were 
offered up to him -- do you understand ? -- to Mr. Kurtz himself . But it was a 
beautiful piece of writing . The opening paragraph 
(one of several distinct subdivisions of a text intended to separate ideas; the beginning is usually marked by a new indented line)

, however , in the light of later information , strikes 
(deliver a sharp blow, as with the hand, fist, or weapon)

me now as ominous . He began with the argument 
(a fact or assertion offered as evidence that something is true)

that we whites , from the point of development 
(act of improving by expanding or enlarging or refining)

we had arrived at , 'must necessarily 
(in an essential manner)
appear to them [ 
savages ] in the nature of supernatural beings 
(the state or fact of existing)

-- we approach them with the might of a deity 
(any supernatural being worshipped as controlling some part of the world or some aspect of life or who is the personification of a force)

, ' and so on , and so on . 'By the simple exercise of our will we can exert 
(put to use)

a power for good practically unbounded , ' etc. , etc . From that point he soared 
and took me with him . The peroration 
(a flowery and highly rhetorical oration)

was magnificent , though difficult to remember , you know . It gave me the notion 
of an exotic 
(being or from or characteristic of another place or part of the world)

Immensity 
(unusual largeness in size or extent or number)
ruled by an august Benevolence 
(disposition to do good)

. It made me tingle with enthusiasm 
(a feeling of excitement)
. This was the unbounded 
power of eloquence -- of words -- of burning 
(the act of burning something)
noble 
words . There were no practical hints to interrupt the magic 
(possessing or using or characteristic of or appropriate to supernatural powers)

current of phrases , unless a kind of note at the foot of the last page 
(one side of one leaf (of a book or magazine or newspaper or letter etc.) or the written or pictorial matter it contains)

, scrawled 
(write carelessly)
evidently much later , in an unsteady 
(subject to change or variation)

hand , may be regarded 
(deem to be)
as the exposition 
(a systematic interpretation or explanation (usually written) of a specific topic)

of a method 
(a way of doing something, especially a systematic way; implies an orderly logical arrangement (usually in steps))

. It was very simple , and at the end of that moving appeal to every altruistic 
(showing unselfish concern for the welfare of others)

sentiment 
(tender, romantic, or nostalgic feeling or emotion)
it blazed 
(shine brightly and intensively)

at you , luminous and terrifying 
(fill with terror; frighten greatly)
, like a 
flash of lightning in a serene sky : 'Exterminate all the brutes ! ' The curious 
part was that he had apparently forgotten 
(dismiss from the mind; stop remembering)

all about that valuable postscriptum , because , later on , when he in a sense came 
to himself , he repeatedly 
(several time)
entreated 
(ask for or request earnestly)

me to take good care of 'my pamphlet' ( he called it ) , as it was sure to have 
in the future a good influence upon his career 
(the particular occupation for which you are trained)

. I had full information about all these things , and , besides , as it turned out 
, I was to have the care of his memory . I've done enough for it to give me the 
indisputable 
(not open to question; obviously true)
right to lay it , if I choose 
(pick out, select, or choose from a number of alternatives)

, for an everlasting rest in the dust-bin of progress , amongst all the sweepings 
(the act of cleaning with a broom)

and , figuratively 
(in a figurative sense)
speaking , all the dead cats 
(feline mammal usually having thick soft fur and no ability to roar: domestic cats; wildcats)

of civilization 
(a society in an advanced state of social development (e.g., with complex legal and political and religious organizations))

. But then , you see , I ca n't choose . He wo n't be forgotten . Whatever he was 
, he was not common . He had the power to charm or frighten 
(cause fear in)
rudimentary 
(being or involving basic facts or principles)

souls 
(the immaterial part of a person; the actuating cause of an individual life)

into an aggravated witch-dance in his honour ; he could also fill the small souls 
of the pilgrims with bitter 
(marked by strong resentment or cynicism)
misgivings 
(uneasiness about the fitness of an action)

: he had one devoted friend at least , and he had conquered one soul in the world 
that was neither rudimentary nor tainted 
(place under suspicion or cast doubt upon)

with self-seeking 
(interested only in yourself)
. No ; I ca n't forget him , though 
I am not prepared 
(make ready or suitable or equip in advance for a particular purpose or for some use, event, etc)

to affirm 
(establish or strengthen as with new evidence or facts)
the fellow was 
exactly worth the life we lost in getting to him . I missed my late helmsman awfully 
-- I missed him even while his body was still lying in the pilot-house . Perhaps 
you will think it passing strange this regret 
(sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment)

for a savage who was no more account than a grain 
(a relatively small granular particle of a substance)

of sand 
(a loose material consisting of grains of rock or coral)
in a black Sahara 
. Well , do n't you see , he had done something , he had steered ; for months I 
had him at my back -- a help -- an instrument 
(a device that requires skill for proper use)

. It was a kind of partnership . He steered for me -- I had to look after him , 
I worried about his deficiencies 
(the state of needing something that is absent or unavailable)

, and thus a subtle bond had been created 
(make or cause to be or to become)
, 
of which I only became aware when it was suddenly broken . And the intimate 
(someone to whom private matters are confided)

profundity 
(wisdom that is recondite and abstruse and profound)
of that look he 
gave me when he received his hurt remains to this day in my memory -- like a claim 
of distant 
(separated in space or coming from or going to a distance)
kinship affirmed 
(establish or strengthen as with new evidence or facts)

in a supreme moment . `` Poor fool ! If he had only left that shutter alone . He 
had no restraint , no restraint -- just like Kurtz -- a tree swayed by the wind 
. As soon as I had put on a dry pair of slippers , I dragged 
(pull, as against a resistance)

him out , after first jerking 
(an abrupt spasmodic movement)
the spear out of his 
side , which operation 
(the state of being in effect or being operative)
I confess 
(confess to a punishable or reprehensible deed, usually under pressure)

I performed 
(carry out or perform an action)
with my eyes shut tight . His heels 
leaped together over the little doorstep ; his shoulders were pressed 
(exert pressure or force to or upon)

to my breast 
(the front of the trunk from the neck to the abdomen)
; I hugged 
(squeeze (someone) tightly in your arms, usually with fondness)

him from behind desperately 
(with great urgency)
. Oh ! he was heavy , heavy ; 
heavier than any man on earth , I should imagine . Then without more ado I tipped 
(cause to tilt)

him overboard . The current snatched him as though he had been a wisp 
(a small tuft or lock)

of grass , and I saw the body roll over twice before I lost sight of it for ever 
. All the pilgrims and the manager were then congregated 
(come together, usually for a purpose)

on the awning-deck about the pilot-house , chattering at each other like a flock 
(a church congregation guided by a pastor)

of excited magpies 
(long-tailed black-and-white crow that utters a raucous chattering call)

, and there was a scandalized 
(strike with disgust or revulsion)
murmur at my heartless 
promptitude 
(the characteristic of doing things without delay)
. What they wanted 
to keep that body hanging about for I ca n't guess . Embalm it , maybe . But I had 
also heard another , and a very ominous , murmur on the deck below . My friends 
the wood-cutters were likewise 
(in like or similar manner)
scandalized , and with 
a better show of reason -- though I admit that the reason itself was quite inadmissible 
(not deserving to be admitted)

. Oh , quite ! I had made up my mind that if my late helmsman was to be eaten , 
the fishes alone should have him . He had been a very second-rate 
(moderate to inferior in quality)

helmsman while alive , but now he was dead he might have become a first-class temptation 
(something that seduces or has the quality to seduce)

, and possibly cause some startling trouble . Besides , I was anxious to take the 
wheel , the man in pink pyjamas showing himself a hopeless duffer 
(an incompetent or clumsy person)

at the business . `` This I did directly the simple funeral was over . We were going 
half-speed , keeping right in the middle of the stream , and I listened to the talk 
about me . They had given up Kurtz , they had given up the station ; Kurtz was dead 
, and the station had been burnt -- and so on -- and so on . The red-haired pilgrim 
was beside himself with the thought that at least this poor Kurtz had been properly 
avenged 
(take revenge for a perceived wrong)
. 'Say ! We must have made a glorious 
slaughter 
(the killing of animals (as for food))
of them in the bush . Eh ? What 
do you think ? Say ? ' He positively danced 
(move in a graceful and rhythmical way)

, the bloodthirsty little gingery 
(having a taste like that of ginger)
beggar 
(a pauper who lives by begging)

. And he had nearly fainted 
(pass out from weakness, physical or emotional distress due to a loss of blood supply to the brain)

when he saw the wounded man ! I could not help saying , 'You made a glorious lot 
of smoke , anyhow . ' I had seen , from the way the tops 
(the upper part of anything)

of the bushes rustled and flew , that almost all the shots had gone too high . You 
ca n't hit anything unless you take aim and fire from the shoulder ; but these chaps 
fired from the hip with their eyes shut . The retreat , I maintained 
(keep in a certain state, position, or activity; e.g., "keep clean")

-- and I was right -- was caused by the screeching of the steam whistle . Upon this 
they forgot Kurtz , and began to howl at me with indignant 
(angered at something unjust or wrong)

protests 
(a formal and solemn declaration of objection)
. `` The manager stood 
by the wheel murmuring 
(speak softly or indistinctly)
confidentially 
(in a confidential manner)

about the necessity of getting well away down the river before dark at all events 
(something that happens at a given place and time)

, when I saw in the distance a clearing 
(a tract of land with few or no trees in the middle of a wooded area)

on the riverside and the outlines of some sort of building . 'What 's this ? ' I 
asked . He clapped 
(put quickly or forcibly)
his hands in wonder . 'The station 
! ' he cried . I edged 
(advance slowly, as if by inches)
in at once , still going 
half-speed . `` Through my glasses I saw the slope of a hill interspersed 
(place at intervals in or among)

with rare 
(not widely known; especially valued for its uncommonness)
trees and 
perfectly free from undergrowth . A long decaying building on the summit 
(the highest level or degree attainable; the highest stage of development)

was half buried in the high grass ; the large holes in the peaked roof gaped black 
from afar ; the jungle and the woods made a background . There was no enclosure 
(a structure consisting of an area that has been enclosed for some purpose)

or fence of any kind ; but there had been one apparently , for near the house half-a-dozen 
slim posts remained in a row , roughly trimmed 
(remove the edges from and cut down to the desired size)

, and with their upper ends ornamented 
(make more attractive by adding ornament, colour, etc.)

with round carved 
(form by carving)
balls 
(round object that is hit or thrown or kicked in games)

. The rails , or whatever there had been between , had disappeared . Of course the 
forest surrounded all that . The river-bank was clear , and on the waterside 
(land bordering a body of water)

I saw a white man under a hat like a cart-wheel beckoning persistently 
(in a persistent manner)

with his whole arm . Examining the edge of the forest above and below , I was almost 
certain I could see movements 
(a change of position that does not entail a change of location)

-- human forms gliding here and there . I steamed past prudently 
(in a prudent manner)

, then stopped the engines 
(motor that converts thermal energy to mechanical work)

and let her drift 
(a force that moves something along)
down . The man on the shore 
began to shout , urging 
(force or impel in an indicated direction)
us to land . 
'We have been attacked 
(launch an attack or assault on; begin hostilities or start warfare with)

, ' screamed the manager . 'I know -- I know . It 's all right , ' yelled back the 
other , as cheerful 
(being full of or promoting cheer; having or showing good spirits)

as you please . 'Come along . It 's all right . I am glad . ' `` His aspect reminded 
(put in the mind of someone)

me of something I had seen -- something funny I had seen somewhere . As I manoeuvred 
(act in order to achieve a certain goal)

to get alongside , I was asking myself , 'What does this fellow look like ? ' Suddenly 
I got it . He looked like a harlequin 
(a clown or buffoon (after the Harlequin character in the commedia dell'arte))

. His clothes had been made of some stuff that was brown holland 
(a constitutional monarchy in western Europe on the North Sea; half the country lies below sea level)

probably , but it was covered with patches all over , with bright patches , blue 
, red , and yellow -- patches on the back , patches on the front , patches on elbows 
(hinge joint between the forearm and upper arm and the corresponding joint in the forelimb of a quadruped)

, on knees ; coloured 
(modify or bias)
binding 
(the capacity to attract and hold something)

around his jacket , scarlet 
(a variable color that is vivid red but sometimes with an orange tinge)

edging 
(advance slowly, as if by inches)
at the bottom of his trousers ; and the 
sunshine made him look extremely gay 
(someone who practices homosexuality; having a sexual attraction to persons of the same sex)

and wonderfully neat 
(clean or organized)
withal , because you could see how beautifully 
(in a beautiful manner)

all this patching 
(the act of mending a hole in a garment by sewing a patch over it)

had been done . A beardless , boyish 
(befitting or characteristic of a young boy)

face , very fair , no features to speak of , nose peeling 
(loss of bits of outer skin by peeling or shedding or coming off in scales)

, little blue eyes , smiles 
(a facial expression characterized by turning up the corners of the mouth; usually shows pleasure or amusement)

and frowns 
(a facial expression of dislike or displeasure)
chasing 
(go after with the intent to catch)

each other over that open countenance 
(the appearance conveyed by a person's face)

like sunshine and shadow on a wind-swept plain . 'Look out , captain ! ' he cried 
; 'there 's a snag lodged 
(be a lodger; stay temporarily)
in here last night . 
' What ! Another snag ? I confess I swore shamefully 
(in a dishonorable manner or to a dishonorable degree)

. I had nearly holed 
(hit the ball into the hole)
my cripple , to finish off that 
charming 
(attract; cause to be enamored)
trip . The harlequin on the bank turned 
his little pug-nose 
(having a blunt nose)
up to me . 'You English ? ' he asked 
, all smiles . 'Are you ? ' I shouted from the wheel . The smiles vanished , and 
he shook his head as if sorry for my disappointment . Then he brightened 
(make lighter or brighter)

up . 'Never mind ! ' he cried encouragingly 
(in an encouraging manner)
. 'Are we 
in time ? ' I asked . 'He is up there , ' he replied , with a toss of the head up 
the hill , and becoming gloomy all of a sudden . His face was like the autumn 
(the season when the leaves fall from the trees)

sky , overcast 
(filled or abounding with clouds)
one moment and bright the next 
. `` When the manager , escorted 
(accompany as an escort)
by the pilgrims , all 
of them armed to the teeth , had gone to the house this chap came on board . 'I 
say , I don't like this . These natives are in the bush , ' I said . He assured 
me earnestly it was all right . 'They are simple people , ' he added ; 'well , I 
am glad you came . It took me all my time to keep them off . ' 'But you said it 
was all right , ' I cried . 'Oh , they meant no harm 
(any physical damage to the body caused by violence or accident or fracture etc.)

, ' he said ; and as I stared he corrected 
(make right or correct)
himself , 'Not 
exactly . ' Then vivaciously 
(with vivacity)
, 'My faith , your pilot-house wants 
a clean-up ! ' In the next breath he advised 
(give advice to)
me to keep enough 
steam on the boiler to blow the whistle in case of any trouble . 'One good screech 
will do more for you than all your rifles 
(a shoulder firearm with a long barrel and a rifled bore)

. They are simple people , ' he repeated . He rattled 
(make short successive sounds)

away at such a rate he quite overwhelmed 
(overcome, as with emotions or perceptual stimuli)

me . He seemed to be trying to make up for lots of silence , and actually hinted 
(drop a hint; intimate by a hint)

, laughing , that such was the case . 'Don't you talk with Mr . Kurtz ? ' I said 
. 'You do n't talk with that man -- you listen to him , ' he exclaimed with severe 
(intensely or extremely bad or unpleasant in degree or quality)

exaltation 
(a state of being carried away by overwhelming emotion)
. 'But now -- 
' He waved 
(signal with the hands or nod)
his arm , and in the twinkling 
(a very short time (as the time it takes the eye to blink or the heart to beat))

of an eye was in the uttermost depths of despondency 
(feeling downcast and disheartened and hopeless)

. In a moment he came up again with a jump , possessed 
(have as an attribute, knowledge, or skill)

himself of both my hands , shook them continuously , while he gabbled 
(speak (about unimportant matters) rapidly and incessantly)

: 'Brother sailor ... honour ... pleasure ... delight 
(a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction)

... introduce myself ... Russian 
(of or pertaining to or characteristic of Russia or its people or culture or language)

... son of an arch-priest ... Government of Tambov ... What ? Tobacco ! English 
tobacco 
(leaves of the tobacco plant dried and prepared for smoking or ingestion)

; the excellent English tobacco ! Now , that 's brotherly 
((archaic as adverb) in a brotherly manner)

. Smoke ? Where 's a sailor that does not smoke ? '' `` The pipe soothed 
(give moral or emotional strength to)

him , and gradually 
(in a gradual manner)
I made out he had run away from school 
, had gone to sea in a Russian ship ; ran away again ; served some time in English 
ships ; was now reconciled 
(make (one thing) compatible with (another))
with the 
arch-priest . He made a point of that . 'But when one is young one must see things 
, gather experience , ideas ; enlarge the mind . ' 'Here ! ' I interrupted . 'You 
can never tell ! Here I met Mr. Kurtz , ' he said , youthfully 
(in a youthful manner)

solemn 
(dignified and somber in manner or character and committed to keeping promises)

and reproachful 
(expressing reproof or reproach especially as a corrective)
. I 
held my tongue after that . It appears he had persuaded 
(win approval or support for)

a Dutch 
(of or relating to the Netherlands or its people or culture)
trading-house 
on the coast to fit him out with stores and goods , and had started for the interior 
with a light heart and no more idea of what would happen to him than a baby . He 
had been wandering about that river for nearly two years alone , cut off from everybody 
and everything . 'I am not so young as I look . I am twenty-five 
(being five more than twenty)

, ' he said . 'At first old Van Shuyten would tell me to go to the devil , ' he 
narrated 
(provide commentary for a film, for example)
with keen 
(having or demonstrating ability to recognize or draw fine distinctions)

enjoyment 
(the pleasure felt when having a good time)
; 'but I stuck to him , and 
talked and talked , till at last he got afraid I would talk the hind-leg off his 
favourite dog , so he gave me some cheap things and a few guns , and told me he 
hoped he would never see my face again . Good old Dutchman , Van Shuyten . I 've 
sent him one small lot of ivory a year ago , so that he ca n't call me a little 
thief when I get back . I hope he got it . And for the rest I do n't care . I had 
some wood stacked for you . That was my old house . Did you see ? ' `` I gave him 
Towson 's book . He made as though he would kiss me , but restrained 
(keep under control; keep in check)

himself . 'The only book I had left , and I thought I had lost it , ' he said , 
looking at it ecstatically 
(in an ecstatic manner)
. 'So many accidents 
(an unfortunate mishap; especially one causing damage or injury)

happen to a man going about alone , you know . Canoes get upset sometimes -- and 
sometimes you 've got to clear out so quick when the people get angry . ' He thumbed 
the pages . 'You made notes in Russian ? ' I asked . He nodded . 'I thought they 
were written in cipher , ' I said . He laughed 
(produce laughter)
, then became 
serious . 'I had lots of trouble to keep these people off , ' he said . 'Did they 
want to kill you ? ' I asked . 'Oh , no ! ' he cried , and checked himself . 'Why 
did they attack us ? ' I pursued 
(carry out or participate in an activity; be involved in)

. He hesitated 
(pause or hold back in uncertainty or unwillingness)
, then said 
shamefacedly 
(in a shamefaced manner)
, 'They do n't want him to go . ' 'Do n't 
they ? ' I said curiously 
(in a manner differing from the usual or expected)
. 
He nodded a nod full of mystery and wisdom . 'I tell you , ' he cried , 'this man 
has enlarged 
(make larger)
my mind . ' He opened his arms wide , staring at me 
with his little blue eyes that were perfectly round . '' `` I looked at him , lost 
in astonishment 
(the feeling that accompanies something extremely surprising)
. 
There he was before me , in motley 
(a collection containing a variety of sorts of things)

, as though he had absconded 
(run away; usually includes taking something or somebody along)

from a troupe 
(organization of performers and associated personnel (especially theatrical))

of mimes 
(an actor who communicates entirely by gesture and facial expression)

, enthusiastic , fabulous . His very existence was improbable 
(not likely to be true or to occur or to have occurred)

, inexplicable , and altogether bewildering . He was an insoluble problem . It was 
inconceivable how he had existed 
(have an existence, be extant)
, how he had succeeded 
(attain success or reach a desired goal)

in getting so far , how he had managed to remain -- why he did not instantly disappear 
. 'I went a little farther , ' he said , 'then still a little farther -- till I 
had gone so far that I do n't know how I 'll ever get back . Never 
(not ever; at no time in the past or future)

mind . Plenty time . I can manage . You take Kurtz away quick -- quick -- I tell 
you . ' The glamour of youth enveloped his parti-coloured rags , his destitution 
(a state without friends or money or prospects)

, his loneliness 
(the state of being alone in solitary isolation)
, the essential 
(absolutely necessary; vitally necessary)

desolation of his futile wanderings 
(travelling about without any clear destination)

. For months -- for years -- his life had n't been worth a day's purchase 
(the acquisition of something for payment)

; and there he was gallantly 
(in a gallant manner)
, thoughtlessly 
(in a thoughtless manner)

alive , to all appearances indestructible 
(not easily destroyed)
solely 
(without any others being included or involved)

by the virtue of his few years and of his unreflecting audacity . I was seduced 
(induce to have sex)

into something like admiration -- like envy 
(a feeling of grudging admiration and desire to have something that is possessed by another)

. Glamour urged 
(force or impel in an indicated direction)
him on , glamour kept 
him unscathed . He surely 
(definitely or positively (`sure' is sometimes used informally for `surely'))

wanted nothing from the wilderness but space to breathe in and to push on through 
. His need was to exist , and to move onwards at the greatest possible risk 
(a source of danger; a possibility of incurring loss or misfortune)

, and with a maximum 
(the largest possible quantity)
of privation 
(a state of extreme poverty)

. If the absolutely pure , uncalculating , unpractical spirit of adventure 
(a wild and exciting undertaking (not necessarily lawful))

had ever ruled a human being , it ruled this bepatched youth . I almost envied 
(feel envious towards; admire enviously)

him the possession of this modest 
(marked by simplicity; having a humble opinion of yourself)

and clear flame . It seemed to have consumed all thought of self so completely , 
that even while he was talking to you , you forgot that it was he -- the man before 
your eyes -- who had gone through these things . I did not envy him his devotion 
to Kurtz , though . He had not meditated 
(reflect deeply on a subject)
over it 
. It came to him , and he accepted it with a sort of eager 
(a high wave (often dangerous) caused by tidal flow (as by colliding tidal currents or in a narrow estuary))

fatalism 
(a submissive mental attitude resulting from acceptance of the doctrine that everything that happens is predetermined and inevitable)

. I must say that to me it appeared about the most dangerous thing in every way 
he had come upon so far . `` They had come together unavoidably 
(by necessity)

, like two ships becalmed 
(make steady)
near each other , and lay rubbing 
(move over something with pressure)

sides at last . I suppose Kurtz wanted an audience , because on a certain occasion 
(an event that occurs at a critical time)

, when encamped 
(live in or as if in a tent)
in the forest , they had talked all 
night , or more probably Kurtz had talked . 'We talked of everything , ' he said 
, quite transported 
(move something or somebody around; usually over long distances)

at the recollection 
(the ability to recall past occurrences)
. 'I forgot there 
was such a thing as sleep . The night did not seem to last an hour . Everything 
! Everything ! ... Of love , too . ' 'Ah , he talked to you of love ! ' I said , 
much amused 
(occupy in an agreeable, entertaining or pleasant fashion)
. 'It is 
n't what you think , ' he cried , almost passionately 
(with passion)
. 'It was 
in general . He made me see things -- things . ' `` He threw his arms up . We were 
on deck at the time , and the headman of my wood-cutters , lounging 
(sit or recline comfortably)

near by , turned upon him his heavy and glittering eyes . I looked around , and 
I do n't know why , but I assure you that never , never before , did this land , 
this river , this jungle , the very arch of this blazing sky , appear to me so hopeless 
and so dark , so impenetrable to human thought , so pitiless to human weakness . 
'And , ever since , you have been with him , of course ? ' I said . `` On the contrary 
(a relation of direct opposition)

. It appears their intercourse 
(communication between individuals)
had been very 
much broken by various causes 
(events that provide the generative force that is the origin of something)

. He had , as he informed me proudly 
(with pride; in a proud manner)
, managed 
to nurse 
(try to cure by special care of treatment, of an illness or injury)
Kurtz 
through two illnesses 
(impairment of normal physiological function affecting part or all of an organism)

( he alluded to it as you would to some risky 
(involving risk or danger)
feat 
(a notable achievement)

) , but as a rule 
(a principle or condition that customarily governs behavior)

Kurtz wandered alone , far in the depths of the forest . 'Very often coming to this 
station , I had to wait days and days before he would turn up , ' he said . 'Ah 
, it was worth waiting for ! -- sometimes . ' 'What was he doing ? exploring 
(inquire into)

or what ? ' I asked . 'Oh , yes , of course ' ; he had discovered lots of villages 
, a lake 
(a body of (usually fresh) water surrounded by land)
, too -- he did not 
know exactly in what direction ; it was dangerous to inquire too much -- but mostly 
his expeditions 
(a military campaign designed to achieve a specific objective in a foreign country)

had been for ivory . 'But he had no goods to trade with by that time , ' I objected 
(express or raise an objection or protest or criticism or express dissent)

. 'There 's a good lot of cartridges 
(ammunition consisting of a cylindrical casing containing an explosive charge and a bullet; fired from a rifle or handgun)

left even yet , ' he answered , looking away . 'To speak plainly , he raided 
(search without warning, make a sudden surprise attack on)

the country , ' I said . He nodded . 'Not alone , surely ! ' He muttered something 
about the villages round that lake . 'Kurtz got the tribe to follow him , did he 
? ' I suggested 
(make a proposal, declare a plan for something)
. He fidgeted a 
little . 'They adored 
(love intensely)
him , ' he said . The tone of these words 
was so extraordinary that I looked at him searchingly 
(in a searching manner)
. 
It was curious to see his mingled 
(to bring or combine together or with something else)

eagerness and reluctance 
((physics) opposition to magnetic flux (analogous to electric resistance))

to speak of Kurtz . The man filled his life , occupied 
(keep busy with)
his thoughts 
, swayed his emotions 
(any strong feeling)
. 'What can you expect ? ' he burst 
out ; 'he came to them with thunder 
(a deep prolonged loud noise)
and lightning 
, you know -- and they had never seen anything like it -- and very terrible . He 
could be very terrible . You ca n't judge Mr. Kurtz as you would an ordinary man 
. No , no , no ! Now -- just to give you an idea -- I do n't mind telling you , 
he wanted to shoot 
(hit with a missile from a weapon)
me , too , one day -- but 
I do n't judge him . ' 'Shoot you ! ' I cried 'What for ? ' 'Well , I had a small 
lot of ivory the chief of that village near my house gave me . You see I used to 
shoot game for them . Well , he wanted it , and would n't hear reason . He declared 
he would shoot me unless I gave him the ivory and then cleared out of the country 
, because he could do so , and had a fancy for it , and there was nothing on earth 
to prevent him killing 
(cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or knowingly)

whom he jolly well pleased . And it was true , too . I gave him the ivory . What 
did I care ! But I did n't clear out . No , no . I could n't leave him . I had to 
be careful , of course , till we got friendly again for a time . He had his second 
illness 
(impairment of normal physiological function affecting part or all of an organism)

then . Afterwards I had to keep out of the way ; but I did n't mind . He was living 
for the most part in those villages on the lake . When he came down to the river 
, sometimes he would take to me , and sometimes it was better for me to be careful 
. This man suffered 
(undergo or be subjected to)
too much . He hated all this , 
and somehow he couldn't get away . When I had a chance I begged 
(call upon in supplication; entreat)

him to try and leave while there was time ; I offered to go back with him . And 
he would say yes , and then he would remain ; go off on another ivory hunt 
(Englishman and Pre-Raphaelite painter (1827-1910))

; disappear for weeks ; forget himself amongst these people -- forget himself -- 
you know . ' 'Why ! he 's mad , ' I said . He protested 
(utter words of protest)

indignantly 
(in an indignant manner)
. Mr. Kurtz could n't be mad . If I had heard 
him talk , only two days ago , I would n't dare 
(take upon oneself; act presumptuously, without permission)

hint at such a thing ... . I had taken up my binoculars 
(an optical instrument designed for simultaneous use by both eyes)

while we talked , and was looking at the shore , sweeping 
(taking in or moving over (or as if over) a wide area; often used in combination)

the limit 
(the greatest possible degree of something)
of the forest at each side 
and at the back of the house . The consciousness 
(an alert cognitive state in which you are aware of yourself and your situation)

of there being people in that bush , so silent , so quiet -- as silent and quiet 
as the ruined house on the hill -- made me uneasy . There was no sign on the face 
of nature of this amazing tale that was not so much told as suggested to me in desolate 
exclamations , completed 
(come or bring to a finish or an end; others finished in over 4 hours")

by shrugs 
(a gesture involving the shoulders)
, in interrupted phrases , in hints 
ending in deep sighs 
(an utterance made by exhaling audibly)
. The woods were unmoved 
, like a mask 
(a covering to disguise or conceal the face)
-- heavy , like the 
closed door of a prison 
(a correctional institution where persons are confined while on trial or for punishment)

-- they looked with their air of hidden knowledge , of patient expectation , of 
unapproachable 
(discouraging intimacies; reserved)
silence . The Russian was explaining 
(make plain and comprehensible)

to me that it was only lately 
(in the recent past)
that Mr. Kurtz had come down 
to the river , bringing 
(take something or somebody with oneself somewhere)
along 
with him all the fighting 
(the act of fighting; any contest or struggle)
men of 
that lake tribe . He had been absent 
(go away or leave)
for several months -- getting 
himself adored , I suppose -- and had come down unexpectedly 
(in a way that was not expected)

, with the intention to all appearance of making a raid either across the river 
or down stream . Evidently 
(unmistakably (`plain' is often used informally for `plainly'))

the appetite 
(a feeling of craving something)
for more ivory had got the better 
of the -- what shall I say ? -- less material 
(the tangible substance that goes into the makeup of a physical object)

aspirations 
(a will to succeed)
. However he had got much worse suddenly . 'I heard 
he was lying helpless , and so I came up -- took my chance , ' said the Russian 
. 'Oh , he is bad , very bad . ' I directed 
(command with authority)
my glass to 
the house . There were no signs of life , but there was the ruined roof , the long 
mud wall peeping 
(look furtively)
above the grass , with three little square 
((geometry) a plane rectangle with four equal sides and four right angles; a four-sided regular polygon)

window-holes , no two of the same size ; all this brought within reach of my hand 
, as it were . And then I made a brusque movement , and one of the remaining 
(stay the same; remain in a certain state)

posts of that vanished fence leaped up in the field of my glass . You remember I 
told you I had been struck at the distance by certain attempts 
(earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something)

at ornamentation 
(the state of being ornamented)
, rather remarkable in the ruinous 
(extremely harmful; bringing physical or financial ruin)

aspect of the place . Now I had suddenly a nearer view 
(a way of regarding situations or topics etc.)

, and its first result 
(a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon)

was to make me throw my head back as if before a blow . Then I went carefully from 
post to post with my glass , and I saw my mistake 
(a wrong action attributable to bad judgment or ignorance or inattention)

. These round knobs 
(a circular rounded projection or protuberance)
were not ornamental 
but symbolic 
(relating to or using or proceeding by means of symbols)
; they were 
expressive 
(characterized by expression)
and puzzling 
(be a mystery or bewildering to)

, striking and disturbing 
(move deeply)
-- food for thought and also for vultures 
(any of various large diurnal birds of prey having naked heads and weak claws and feeding chiefly on carrion)

if there had been any looking down from the sky ; but at all events for such ants 
as were industrious 
(characterized by hard work and perseverance)
enough to ascend 
(travel up, "We ascended the mountain")

the pole . They would have been even more impressive 
(making a strong or vivid impression)

, those heads on the stakes 
(the money risked on a gamble)
, if their faces had 
not been turned to the house . Only one , the first I had made out , was facing 
my way . I was not so shocked as you may think . The start back I had given was 
really nothing but a movement of surprise . I had expected to see a knob 
(a circular rounded projection or protuberance)

of wood there , you know . I returned deliberately 
(with intention; in an intentional manner)

to the first I had seen -- and there it was , black , dried 
(remove the moisture from and make dry)

, sunken , with closed eyelids -- a head that seemed to sleep at the top of that 
pole , and , with the shrunken dry lips showing a narrow white line of the teeth 
, was smiling , too , smiling continuously at some endless and jocose dream of that 
eternal 
(continuing forever or indefinitely)
slumber 
(a natural and periodic state of rest during which consciousness of the world is suspended)

. `` I am not disclosing 
(make known to the public information that was previously known only to a few people or that was meant to be kept a secret)

any trade secrets . In fact , the manager said afterwards that Mr. Kurtz 's methods 
(a way of doing something, especially a systematic way; implies an orderly logical arrangement (usually in steps))

had ruined the district . I have no opinion on that point , but I want you clearly 
(without doubt or question)

to understand that there was nothing exactly profitable 
(yielding material gain or profit)

in these heads being there . They only showed that Mr. Kurtz lacked 
(be without)

restraint in the gratification 
(state of being gratified or satisfied)
of his various 
lusts 
(a strong sexual desire)
, that there was something wanting 
(feel or have a desire for; want strongly)

in him -- some small matter which , when the pressing 
(the act of pressing; the exertion of pressure)

need arose , could not be found under his magnificent eloquence . Whether he knew 
of this deficiency 
(the state of needing something that is absent or unavailable)

himself I ca n't say . I think the knowledge came to him at last -- only at the 
very last . But the wilderness had found him out early , and had taken on him a 
terrible vengeance for the fantastic invasion . I think it had whispered to him 
things about himself which he did not know , things of which he had no conception 
(an abstract or general idea inferred or derived from specific instances)

till he took counsel 
(a lawyer who pleads cases in court)
with this great solitude 
-- and the whisper had proved 
(be shown or be found to be)
irresistibly 
(incapable of being resisted)

fascinating . It echoed 
(to say again or imitate)
loudly 
(with relatively high volume)

within him because he was hollow at the core 
(a small group of indispensable persons or things)

... . I put down the glass , and the head that had appeared near enough to be spoken 
to seemed at once to have leaped away from me into inaccessible 
(capable of being reached only with great difficulty or not at all)

distance . `` The admirer 
(a person who backs a politician or a team etc.)
of Mr. 
Kurtz was a bit crestfallen . In a hurried , indistinct voice he began to assure 
me he had not dared 
(take upon oneself; act presumptuously, without permission)

to take these -- say , symbols 
(an arbitrary sign (written or printed) that has acquired a conventional significance)

-- down . He was not afraid of the natives ; they would not stir till Mr. Kurtz 
gave the word . His ascendancy 
(the state that exists when one person or group has power over another)

was extraordinary . The camps 
(temporary living quarters specially built by the army for soldiers)

of these people surrounded the place , and the chiefs 
(a person who is in charge)

came every day to see him . They would crawl ... . 'I do n't want to know anything 
of the ceremonies used when approaching Mr. Kurtz , ' I shouted . Curious 
(beyond or deviating from the usual or expected)

, this feeling that came over me that such details 
(true confidential information)

would be more intolerable than those heads drying 
(remove the moisture from and make dry)

on the stakes under Mr. Kurtz's windows . After all , that was only a savage sight 
, while I seemed at one bound to have been transported into some lightless region 
of subtle horrors , where pure , uncomplicated savagery was a positive relief , 
being something that had a right to exist -- obviously -- in the sunshine . The 
young man looked at me with surprise . I suppose it did not occur to him that Mr. 
Kurtz was no idol of mine . He forgot I had n't heard any of these splendid 
(having great beauty and splendor)

monologues 
(speech you make to yourself)
on , what was it ? on love , justice 
(the quality of being just or fair)

, conduct 
(manner of acting or controlling yourself)
of life -- or what not . If 
it had come to crawling before Mr. Kurtz , he crawled as much as the veriest savage 
of them all . I had no idea of the conditions 
(the prevailing context that influences the performance or the outcome of a process)

, he said : these heads were the heads of rebels 
(`Johnny' was applied as a nickname for Confederate soldiers by the Federal soldiers in the American Civil War; `greyback' derived from their grey Confederate uniforms)

. I shocked him excessively 
(to a degree exceeding normal or proper limits)
by 
laughing . Rebels 
(`Johnny' was applied as a nickname for Confederate soldiers by the Federal soldiers in the American Civil War; `greyback' derived from their grey Confederate uniforms)

! What would be the next definition 
(a concise explanation of the meaning of a word or phrase or symbol)

I was to hear ? There had been enemies , criminals , workers 
(a person who works at a specific occupation)

-- and these were rebels . Those rebellious 
(resisting control or authority)
heads 
looked very subdued to me on their sticks . 'You do n't know how such a life tries 
(earnest and conscientious activity intended to do or accomplish something)

a man like Kurtz , ' cried Kurtz 's last disciple 
(someone who believes and helps to spread the doctrine of another)

. 'Well , and you ? ' I said . 'I ! I ! I am a simple man . I have no great thoughts 
. I want nothing from anybody . How can you compare 
(examine and note the similarities or differences of)

me to ... ? ' His feelings were too much for speech , and suddenly he broke down 
. 'I do n't understand , ' he groaned . 'I 've been doing my best to keep him alive 
, and that 's enough . I had no hand in all this . I have no abilities 
(the quality of being able to perform; a quality that permits or facilitates achievement or accomplishment)

. There has n't been a drop of medicine 
(the branches of medical science that deal with nonsurgical techniques)

or a mouthful of invalid food for months here . He was shamefully abandoned . A 
man like this , with such ideas . Shamefully 
(in a dishonorable manner or to a dishonorable degree)

! Shamefully ! I -- I -- haven't slept for the last ten nights ... ' '' His voice 
lost itself in the calm of the evening . The long shadows of the forest had slipped 
downhill 
(the downward slope of a hill)
while we talked , had gone far beyond the 
ruined hovel , beyond the symbolic row of stakes . All this was in the gloom , while 
we down there were yet in the sunshine , and the stretch of the river abreast of 
the clearing glittered in a still and dazzling splendour , with a murky 
((of liquids) clouded as with sediment)

and overshadowed bend above and below . Not a living soul was seen on the shore 
. The bushes did not rustle 
(make a dry crackling sound)
. `` Suddenly round the 
corner of the house a group of men appeared , as though they had come up from the 
ground . They waded 
(walk (through relatively shallow water))
waist-deep in the 
grass , in a compact 
(a small cosmetics case with a mirror; to be carried in a woman's purse)

body , bearing an improvised 
(done or made using whatever is available)
stretcher 
(a wooden framework on which canvas is stretched and fixed for oil painting)

in their midst . Instantly 
(without delay or hesitation; with no time intervening)

, in the emptiness 
(the state of containing nothing)
of the landscape 
(an expanse of scenery that can be seen in a single view)

, a cry arose whose shrillness 
(the quality of being sharp or harsh to the senses)

pierced 
(cut or make a way through)
the still air like a sharp arrow flying straight 
to the very heart of the land ; and , as if by enchantment 
(a feeling of great liking for something wonderful and unusual)

, streams of human beings -- of naked human beings -- with spears in their hands 
, with bows , with shields , with wild glances and savage movements , were poured 
(cause to run)

into the clearing by the dark-faced and pensive forest . The bushes shook , the 
grass swayed for a time , and then everything stood still in attentive 
((often followed by `to') giving care or attention)

immobility . `` 'Now , if he does not say the right thing to them we are all done 
for , ' said the Russian at my elbow . The knot 
(a tight cluster of people or things)

of men with the stretcher had stopped , too , halfway 
(at half the distance; at the middle)

to the steamer , as if petrified 
(cause to become stonelike or stiff or dazed and stunned)

. I saw the man on the stretcher sit up , lank and with an uplifted 
(fill with high spirits; fill with optimism)

arm , above the shoulders of the bearers . 'Let us hope that the man who can talk 
so well of love in general will find some particular reason to spare us this time 
, ' I said . I resented 
(feel bitter or indignant about)
bitterly 
(with bitterness, in a resentful manner)

the absurd danger of our situation , as if to be at the mercy 
(leniency and compassion shown toward offenders by a person or agency charged with administering justice)

of that atrocious phantom had been a dishonouring necessity . I could not hear a 
sound , but through my glasses I saw the thin arm extended 
(extend in scope or range or area)

commandingly , the lower jaw 
(the part of the skull of a vertebrate that frames the mouth and holds the teeth)

moving , the eyes of that apparition 
(a ghostly appearing figure)
shining darkly 
far in its bony head that nodded with grotesque jerks 
(a dull stupid fatuous person)

. Kurtz -- Kurtz -- that means short in German 
(of or pertaining to or characteristic of Germany or its people or language)

-- do n't it ? Well , the name was as true as everything else in his life -- and 
death . He looked at least seven feet long . His covering 
(a natural object that covers or envelops)

had fallen off , and his body emerged 
(come out into view, as from concealment)

from it pitiful and appalling as from a winding-sheet . I could see the cage 
(an enclosure made or wire or metal bars in which birds or animals can be kept)

of his ribs all astir , the bones of his arm waving 
(signal with the hands or nod)

. It was as though an animated 
(heighten or intensify)
image of death carved out 
of old ivory had been shaking its hand with menaces 
(something that is a source of danger)

at a motionless crowd of men made of dark and glittering bronze . I saw him open 
his mouth wide -- it gave him a weirdly 
(in a weird manner)
voracious 
(excessively greedy and grasping)

aspect , as though he had wanted to swallow 
(pass through the esophagus as part of eating or drinking)

all the air , all the earth , all the men before him . A deep voice reached me faintly 
. He must have been shouting . He fell back suddenly . The stretcher shook as the 
bearers staggered 
(walk as if unable to control one's movements)
forward again 
, and almost at the same time I noticed that the crowd of savages was vanishing 
without any perceptible 
(capable of being perceived by the mind or senses)
movement 
of retreat , as if the forest that had ejected 
(put out or expel from a place)

these beings so suddenly had drawn them in again as the breath is drawn in a long 
aspiration 
(a will to succeed)
. `` Some of the pilgrims behind the stretcher carried 
his arms -- two shot-guns , a heavy rifle , and a light revolver-carbine -- the 
thunderbolts 
(a discharge of lightning accompanied by thunder)
of that pitiful 
Jupiter . The manager bent over him murmuring as he walked beside his head . They 
laid him down in one of the little cabins 
(small room on a ship or boat where people sleep)

-- just a room for a bed place and a camp-stool or two , you know . We had brought 
his belated correspondence , and a lot of torn envelopes 
(a flat (usually rectangular) container for a letter, thin package, etc.)

and open letters littered 
(strew)
his bed . His hand roamed 
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or employment)

feebly amongst these papers 
(writing that provides information (especially information of an official nature))

. I was struck by the fire of his eyes and the composed 
(form the substance of)

languor 
(a relaxed comfortable feeling)
of his expression . It was not so much 
the exhaustion 
(extreme fatigue)
of disease . He did not seem in pain . This shadow 
looked satiated 
(fill to satisfaction)
and calm , as though for the moment it had 
had its fill of all the emotions . `` He rustled one of the letters , and looking 
straight in my face said , 'I am glad . ' Somebody had been writing to him about 
me . These special recommendations 
(something (as a course of action) that is recommended as advisable)

were turning up again . The volume 
(the amount of 3-dimensional space occupied by an object)

of tone he emitted 
(expel (gases or odors))
without effort , almost without the 
trouble of moving his lips , amazed me . A voice ! a voice ! It was grave , profound 
, vibrating , while the man did not seem capable of a whisper . However , he had 
enough strength in him -- factitious 
(not produced by natural forces)
no doubt 
-- to very nearly make an end of us , as you shall hear directly . `` The manager 
appeared silently 
(without speaking)
in the doorway ; I stepped out at once and 
he drew 
(cause to move by pulling)
the curtain after me . The Russian , eyed 
(look at)

curiously by the pilgrims , was staring at the shore . I followed the direction 
of his glance . `` Dark human shapes could be made out in the distance , flitting 
(move along rapidly and lightly; skim or dart)

indistinctly 
(in a dim indistinct manner)
against the gloomy border of the forest 
, and near the river two bronze figures , leaning on tall spears , stood in the 
sunlight under fantastic head-dresses of spotted skins , warlike and still in statuesque 
repose 
(freedom from activity (work or strain or responsibility))
. And from right 
to left along the lighted shore moved a wild and gorgeous 
(dazzlingly beautiful)

apparition of a woman . `` She walked with measured 
(determine the measurements of something or somebody, take measurements of)

steps 
(a flight of stairs or a flight of steps)
, draped in striped 
(mark with stripes)

and fringed cloths , treading 
(put down or press the foot, place the foot)
the 
earth proudly , with a slight jingle 
(a metallic sound)
and flash of barbarous 
((of persons or their actions) able or disposed to inflict pain or suffering)

ornaments 
(something used to beautify)
. She carried her head high ; her hair was 
done in the shape of a helmet 
(armor plate that protects the head)
; she had brass 
leggings 
(a garment covering the leg (usually extending from the knee to the ankle))

to the knee , brass wire gauntlets 
(to offer or accept a challenge)
to the elbow 
, a crimson 
(a deep and vivid red color)
spot on her tawny cheek , innumerable 
necklaces 
(jewelry consisting of a cord or chain (often bearing gems) worn about the neck as an ornament (especially by women))

of glass beads on her neck ; bizarre things , charms 
(attractiveness that interests or pleases or stimulates)

, gifts of witch-men , that hung about her , glittered and trembled at every step 
. She must have had the value of several elephant tusks upon her . She was savage 
and superb , wild-eyed 
(appearing extremely agitated)
and magnificent ; there was 
something ominous and stately in her deliberate progress . And in the hush 
((poetic) tranquil silence)

that had fallen suddenly upon the whole sorrowful 
(experiencing or marked by or expressing sorrow especially that associated with irreparable loss)

land , the immense wilderness , the colossal body of the fecund and mysterious life 
seemed to look at her , pensive , as though it had been looking at the image of 
its own tenebrous 
(dark and gloomy)
and passionate soul . `` She came abreast of 
the steamer , stood still , and faced 
(deal with (something unpleasant) head on)

us . Her long shadow fell to the water 's edge . Her face had a tragic 
(very sad; especially involving grief or death or destruction)

and fierce aspect of wild sorrow and of dumb pain mingled with the fear of some 
struggling , half-shaped resolve 
(the trait of being resolute)
. She stood looking 
at us without a stir , and like the wilderness itself , with an air of brooding 
over an inscrutable purpose . A whole minute passed , and then she made a step forward 
. There was a low jingle , a glint 
(a momentary flash of light)
of yellow metal 
(any of several chemical elements that are usually shiny solids that conduct heat or electricity and can be formed into sheets etc.)

, a sway of fringed draperies 
(hanging cloth used as a blind (especially for a window))

, and she stopped as if her heart had failed 
(fail to do something; leave something undone)

her . The young fellow by my side growled . The pilgrims murmured at my back . She 
looked at us all as if her life had depended 
(be contingent upon (something that is elided))

upon the unswerving steadiness 
(freedom from wavering or indecision; constancy of resolve or conduct)

of her glance . Suddenly she opened her bared 
(lay bare)
arms and threw them up 
rigid above her head , as though in an uncontrollable 
(difficult to solve or alleviate)

desire to touch the sky , and at the same time the swift shadows darted out on the 
earth , swept around on the river , gathering 
(assemble or get together)
the steamer 
into a shadowy 
(filled with shade)
embrace 
(the act of clasping another person in the arms (as in greeting or affection))

. A formidable 
(extremely impressive in strength or excellence)
silence hung over 
the scene . `` She turned away slowly , walked on , following 
(to travel behind, go after, come after)

the bank , and passed into the bushes to the left . Once only her eyes gleamed 
(be shiny, as if wet)

back at us in the dusk of the thickets before she disappeared . `` 'If she had offered 
to come aboard I really think I would have tried to shoot her , ' said the man of 
patches , nervously 
(in an anxiously nervous manner)
. 'I have been risking 
(expose to a chance of loss or damage)

my life every day for the last fortnight 
(a period of fourteen consecutive days)

to keep her out of the house . She got in one day and kicked up a row about those 
miserable rags I picked up in the storeroom 
(a room in which things are stored)

to mend my clothes with . I was n't decent . At least it must have been that , for 
she talked like a fury to Kurtz for an hour , pointing at me now and then . I do 
n't understand the dialect 
(the usage or vocabulary that is characteristic of a specific group of people)

of this tribe . Luckily for me , I fancy Kurtz felt too ill that day to care , or 
there would have been mischief . I do n't understand ... . No -- it 's too much 
for me . Ah , well , it 's all over now . ' `` At this moment I heard Kurtz 's deep 
voice behind the curtain : 'Save me ! -- save the ivory , you mean . Do n't tell 
me . Save _me ! _ Why , I 've had to save you . You are interrupting 
(make a break in)

my plans 
(a series of steps to be carried out or goals to be accomplished)
now 
. Sick ! Sick ! Not so sick as you would like to believe . Never mind . I 'll carry 
my ideas out yet -- I will return . I 'll show you what can be done . You with your 
little peddling 
(the act of selling goods for a living)
notions -- you are interfering 
(come between so as to be hindrance or obstacle)

with me . I will return . I ... .' '' The manager came out . He did me the honour 
to take me under the arm and lead me aside . 'He is very low , very low , ' he said 
. He considered it necessary to sigh , but neglected to be consistently 
(in a systematic or consistent manner)

sorrowful . 'We have done all we could for him -- have n't we ? But there is no 
disguising the fact , Mr. Kurtz has done more harm than good to the Company . He 
did not see the time was not ripe for vigorous action . Cautiously 
(as if with kid gloves; with caution or prudence or tact)

, cautiously -- that 's my principle 
(a basic generalization that is accepted as true and that can be used as a basis for reasoning or conduct)

. We must be cautious 
(showing careful forethought; never making swift decisions")

yet . The district is closed to us for a time . Deplorable 
(bad; unfortunate)
! 
Upon the whole , the trade will suffer 
(undergo or be subjected to)
. I do n't 
deny 
(declare untrue; contradict)
there is a remarkable quantity of ivory -- mostly 
fossil . We must save it , at all events -- but look how precarious the position 
is -- and why ? Because the method is unsound . ' 'Do you , ' said I , looking at 
the shore , 'call it `` unsound method ? '' ' 'Without doubt , ' he exclaimed hotly 
(in a heated manner)

. 'Do n't you ? ' ... 'No method at all , ' I murmured after a while . 'Exactly 
, ' he exulted 
(feel extreme happiness or elation)
. 'I anticipated 
(regard something as probable or likely)

this . Shows 
(give an exhibition of to an interested audience)
a complete want 
of judgment . It is my duty 
(the social force that binds you to the courses of action demanded by that force; every opportunity, an obligation; every possession, a duty"- John D.Rockefeller Jr)

to point it out in the proper quarter 
(one of four equal parts)
. ' 'Oh , ' said 
I , 'that fellow -- what 's his name ? -- the brickmaker , will make a readable 
(easily deciphered)

report for you . ' He appeared confounded for a moment . It seemed to me I had never 
breathed 
(draw air into, and expel out of, the lungs)
an atmosphere so vile 
(morally reprehensible)

, and I turned mentally 
(in your mind)
to Kurtz for relief -- positively for relief 
. 'Nevertheless I think Mr. Kurtz is a remarkable man , ' I said with emphasis 
(special importance or significance)

. He started , dropped on me a heavy glance , said very quietly , 'he _was_ , ' 
and turned his back on me . My hour of favour was over ; I found myself lumped 
(put together indiscriminately)

along with Kurtz as a partisan 
(a fervent and even militant proponent of something)

of methods for which the time was not ripe : I was unsound ! Ah ! but it was something 
to have at least a choice 
(the person or thing chosen or selected)
of nightmares 
. `` I had turned to the wilderness really , not to Mr. Kurtz , who , I was ready 
to admit , was as good as buried . And for a moment it seemed to me as if I also 
were buried in a vast grave full of unspeakable secrets . I felt an intolerable 
weight 
(the vertical force exerted by a mass as a result of gravity)
oppressing 
(come down on or keep down by unjust use of one's authority)

my breast , the smell of the damp 
(a slight wetness)
earth , the unseen 
(a belief that there is a realm controlled by a divine spirit)

presence of victorious 
(having won)
corruption 
(lack of integrity or honesty (especially susceptibility to bribery); use of a position of trust for dishonest gain)

, the darkness of an impenetrable night ... . The Russian tapped 
(cut a female screw thread with a tap)

me on the shoulder . I heard him mumbling 
(talk indistinctly; usually in a low voice)

and stammering 
(speak haltingly)
something about 'brother seaman -- couldn't conceal 
-- knowledge of matters that would affect 
(have an effect upon)
Mr. Kurtz's reputation 
(the state of being held in high esteem and honor)

. ' I waited 
(stay in one place and anticipate or expect something)
. For him evidently 
Mr. Kurtz was not in his grave ; I suspect that for him Mr. Kurtz was one of the 
immortals 
(a person (such as an author) of enduring fame)
. 'Well ! ' said I at 
last , 'speak out . As it happens 
(come to pass)
, I am Mr. Kurtz 's friend -- 
in a way . ' `` He stated 
(express in words)
with a good deal of formality that 
had we not been 'of the same profession 
(the body of people in a learned occupation)

, ' he would have kept the matter to himself without regard 
((usually preceded by `in') a detail or point)

to consequences . 'He suspected 
(imagine to be the case or true or probable)
there 
was an active 
(tending to become more severe or wider in scope)
ill-will towards 
him on the part of these white men that -- ' 'You are right , ' I said , remembering 
(the cognitive processes whereby past experience is remembered)

a certain conversation I had overheard . 'The manager thinks 
(an instance of deliberate thinking)

you ought to be hanged . ' He showed a concern at this intelligence which amused 
me at first . 'I had better get out of the way quietly , ' he said earnestly . 'I 
can do no more for Kurtz now , and they would soon find some excuse . What 's to 
stop them ? There 's a military post three hundred miles from here . ' 'Well , upon 
my word , ' said I , 'perhaps you had better go if you have any friends amongst 
the savages near by . ' 'Plenty , ' he said . 'They are simple people -- and I want 
nothing , you know . ' He stood biting his lip , then : 'I do n't want any harm 
to happen to these whites here , but of course I was thinking of Mr. Kurtz's reputation 
-- but you are a brother seaman and -- ' 'All right , ' said I , after a time . 
'Mr . Kurtz 's reputation is safe with me . ' I did not know how truly 
(in accordance with truth or fact or reality)

I spoke . `` He informed me , lowering 
(move something or somebody to a lower position)

his voice , that it was Kurtz who had ordered the attack to be made on the steamer 
. 'He hated sometimes the idea of being taken away -- and then again ... . But I 
do n't understand these matters . I am a simple man . He thought it would scare 
you away -- that you would give it up , thinking him dead . I could not stop him 
. Oh , I had an awful time of it this last month . ' 'Very well , ' I said . 'He 
is all right now . ' 'Ye-e-es , ' he muttered , not very convinced 
(make (someone) agree, understand, or realize the truth or validity of something)

apparently . 'Thanks , ' said I ; 'I shall keep my eyes open . ' 'But quiet-eh ? 
' he urged anxiously . 'It would be awful for his reputation if anybody here -- 
' I promised 
(make a promise or commitment)
a complete discretion 
(freedom to act or judge on one's own)

with great gravity 
((physics) the force of attraction between all masses in the universe; especially the attraction of the earth's mass for bodies near its surface)

. 'I have a canoe 
(small and light boat; pointed at both ends; propelled with a paddle)

and three black fellows waiting not very far . I am off . Could you give me a few 
Martini-Henry cartridges ? ' I could , and did , with proper secrecy . He helped 
(give help or assistance; be of service)

himself , with a wink at me , to a handful 
(a small number or amount)
of my tobacco 
. 'Between sailors 
(any member of a ship's crew)
-- you know -- good English tobacco 
. ' At the door of the pilot-house he turned round -- 'I say , have n't you a pair 
of shoes you could spare ? ' He raised one leg . 'Look . ' The soles 
(a colloid that has a continuous liquid phase in which a solid is suspended in a liquid)

were tied with knotted 
(tied with a knot)
strings 
(the section of an orchestra that plays stringed instruments)

sandalwise under his bare feet . I rooted 
(take root and begin to grow)
out an 
old pair , at which he looked with admiration before tucking 
(fit snugly into)

it under his left arm . One of his pockets ( bright red ) was bulging with cartridges 
, from the other ( dark blue ) peeped 
(look furtively)
'Towson 's Inquiry , ' etc. 
, etc . He seemed to think himself excellently 
(extremely well)
well equipped for 
a renewed 
(reestablish on a new, usually improved, basis or make new or like new)

encounter 
(a minor short-term fight)
with the wilderness . 'Ah ! I 'll never , 
never meet such a man again . You ought to have heard him recite poetry 
(literature in metrical form)

-- his own , too , it was , he told me . Poetry ! ' He rolled his eyes at the recollection 
of these delights 
(a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction)
. 'Oh , he enlarged 
my mind ! ' 'Good-bye , ' said I . He shook hands and vanished in the night . Sometimes 
I ask myself whether I had ever really seen him -- whether it was possible to meet 
such a phenomenon 
(any state or process known through the senses rather than by intuition or reasoning)

! ... `` When I woke up shortly after midnight his warning came to my mind with 
its hint of danger that seemed , in the starred 
(feature as the star)
darkness 
, real enough to make me get up for the purpose of having a look round . On the 
hill a big fire burned , illuminating fitfully 
(in a fitful manner)
a crooked 
(bend or cause to bend)

corner of the station-house . One of the agents with a picket 
(a person employed to keep watch for some anticipated event)

of a few of our blacks 
(the quality or state of the achromatic color of least lightness (bearing the least resemblance to white))

, armed for the purpose , was keeping guard over the ivory ; but deep within the 
forest , red gleams that wavered 
(pause or hold back in uncertainty or unwillingness)

, that seemed to sink and rise from the ground amongst confused columnar shapes 
of intense blackness 
(the quality or state of the achromatic color of least lightness (bearing the least resemblance to white))

, showed the exact position of the camp where Mr. Kurtz 's adorers 
(someone who admires a young woman)

were keeping their uneasy vigil 
(a period of sleeplessness)
. The monotonous beating 
(the act of overcoming or outdoing)

of a big drum 
(a musical percussion instrument; usually consists of a hollow cylinder with a membrane stretched across each end)

filled the air with muffled shocks 
(the feeling of distress and disbelief that you have when something bad happens accidentally)

and a lingering vibration . A steady droning 
(an unchanging intonation)
sound of 
many men chanting 
(recite with musical intonation; recite as a chant or a psalm)

each to himself some weird incantation 
(a ritual recitation of words or sounds believed to have a magical effect)

came out from the black , flat wall of the woods as the humming 
(a humming noise)

of bees 
(any of numerous hairy-bodied insects including social and solitary species)

comes out of a hive , and had a strange narcotic 
(of or relating to or designating narcotics)

effect upon my half-awake senses 
(a general conscious awareness)
. I believe I 
dozed 
(sleep lightly or for a short period of time)
off leaning over the rail , 
till an abrupt 
(marked by sudden changes in subject and sharp transitions)
burst 
of yells , an overwhelming outbreak of a pent-up 
(characterized by or showing the suppression of impulses or emotions)

and mysterious frenzy , woke me up in a bewildered 
(be a mystery or bewildering to)

wonder . It was cut short all at once , and the low droning went on with an effect 
of audible and soothing 
(give moral or emotional strength to)
silence . I glanced 
casually into the little cabin . A light was burning within , but Mr. Kurtz was 
not there . `` I think I would have raised an outcry 
(a loud utterance; often in protest or opposition)

if I had believed my eyes . But I did n't believe them at first -- the thing seemed 
so impossible . The fact is I was completely unnerved 
(disturb the composure of)

by a sheer blank fright , pure abstract 
(a concept or idea not associated with any specific instance)

terror , unconnected with any distinct shape of physical danger . What made this 
emotion so overpowering 
(overcome by superior force)
was -- how shall I define 
(determine the essential quality of)

it ? -- the moral shock I received , as if something altogether monstrous , intolerable 
to thought and odious 
(unequivocally detestable)
to the soul , had been thrust 
(push forcefully)

upon me unexpectedly . This lasted of course the merest 
(being nothing more than specified)

fraction 
(a component of a mixture that has been separated by a fractional process)

of a second , and then the usual sense of commonplace , deadly danger , the possibility 
(a future prospect or potential)

of a sudden onslaught and massacre , or something of the kind , which I saw impending 
(be imminent or about to happen)

, was positively welcome and composing 
(form the substance of)
. It pacified 
(cause to be more favorably inclined; gain the good will of)

me , in fact , so much that I did not raise an alarm 
(fear resulting from the awareness of danger)

. `` There was an agent buttoned 
(provide with buttons)
up inside an ulster 
(a historic division of Ireland located in the northeastern part of the island; six of Ulster's nine counties are in Northern Ireland)

and sleeping on a chair on deck within three feet of me . The yells had not awakened 
(cause to become awake or conscious)

him ; he snored 
(breathe noisily during one's sleep)
very slightly ; I left him 
to his slumbers 
(a natural and periodic state of rest during which consciousness of the world is suspended)

and leaped ashore . I did not betray 
(reveal unintentionally)
Mr. Kurtz -- it was 
ordered I should never betray him -- it was written I should be loyal 
(steadfast in allegiance or duty)

to the nightmare 
(a situation resembling a terrifying dream)
of my choice . I was 
anxious to deal with this shadow by myself alone -- and to this day I do n't know 
why I was so jealous 
(showing extreme cupidity; painfully desirous of another's advantages)

of sharing 
(using or enjoying something jointly with others)
with any one the peculiar 
blackness of that experience . `` As soon as I got on the bank I saw a trail -- 
a broad trail through the grass . I remember the exultation 
(a feeling of extreme joy)

with which I said to myself , 'He can't walk -- he is crawling on all-fours -- I 
've got him . ' The grass was wet with dew . I strode rapidly 
(with rapid movements)

with clenched 
(closed or squeezed together tightly)
fists 
(a hand with the fingers clenched in the palm (as for hitting))

. I fancy I had some vague notion of falling upon him and giving him a drubbing 
(beat thoroughly and conclusively in a competition or fight)

. I do n't know . I had some imbecile thoughts . The knitting old woman with the 
cat obtruded 
(push to thrust outward)
herself upon my memory as a most improper 
(not suitable or right or appropriate)

person to be sitting at the other end of such an affair . I saw a row of pilgrims 
squirting lead in the air out of Winchesters held to the hip . I thought I would 
never get back to the steamer , and imagined myself living alone and unarmed 
(take away the weapons from; render harmless)

in the woods to an advanced age . Such silly things -- you know . And I remember 
I confounded the beat of the drum with the beating of my heart , and was pleased 
at its calm regularity . `` I kept to the track though -- then stopped to listen 
. The night was very clear ; a dark blue space , sparkling 
(reflect brightly)
with 
dew and starlight 
(the light of the stars)
, in which black things stood very still 
. I thought I could see a kind of motion 
(the use of movements (especially of the hands) to communicate familiar or prearranged signals)

ahead of me . I was strangely 
(in a strange manner)
cocksure 
(marked by excessive confidence)

of everything that night . I actually left the track and ran in a wide semicircle 
(a plane figure with the shape of half a circle)

( I verily believe chuckling 
(laugh quietly or with restraint)
to myself ) so as 
to get in front of that stir , of that motion I had seen -- if indeed I had seen 
anything . I was circumventing 
(surround so as to force to give up)
Kurtz as though 
it had been a boyish game . `` I came upon him , and , if he had not heard me coming 
, I would have fallen over him , too , but he got up in time . He rose , unsteady 
, long , pale , indistinct , like a vapour 
(a visible suspension in the air of particles of some substance)

exhaled 
(expel air)
by the earth , and swayed slightly , misty and silent before 
me ; while at my back the fires loomed 
(come into view indistinctly, often threateningly)

between the trees , and the murmur of many voices issued 
(prepare and issue for public distribution or sale)

from the forest . I had cut him off cleverly 
(in a clever manner)
; but when actually 
confronting 
(oppose, as in hostility or a competition)
him I seemed to come to 
my senses , I saw the danger in its right proportion 
(the quotient obtained when the magnitude of a part is divided by the magnitude of the whole)

. It was by no means over yet . Suppose he began to shout ? Though he could hardly 
stand , there was still plenty of vigour in his voice . 'Go away -- hide yourself 
, ' he said , in that profound tone . It was very awful . I glanced back . We were 
within thirty yards from the nearest 
(not far distant in time or space or degree or circumstances)

fire . A black figure stood up , strode on long black legs , waving long black arms 
, across the glow . It had horns 
(a noisemaker (as at parties or games) that makes a loud noise when you blow through it)

-- antelope 
(graceful Old World ruminant with long legs and horns directed upward and backward; includes gazelles; springboks; impalas; addax; gerenuks; blackbucks; dik-diks)

horns , I think -- on its head . Some sorcerer 
(one who practices magic or sorcery)

, some witch-man , no doubt : it looked fiendlike enough . 'Do you know what you 
are doing ? ' I whispered . 'Perfectly , ' he answered , raising 
(the event of something being raised upward)

his voice for that single word : it sounded to me far off and yet loud , like a 
hail 
(precipitation of ice pellets when there are strong rising air currents)
through 
a speaking-trumpet . 'If he makes a row we are lost , ' I thought to myself . This 
clearly was not a case for fisticuffs 
(a fight with bare fists)
, even apart from 
the very natural aversion 
(a feeling of intense dislike)
I had to beat that Shadow 
-- this wandering and tormented 
(torment emotionally or mentally)
thing . 'You 
will be lost , ' I said -- 'utterly lost . ' One gets sometimes such a flash of 
inspiration , you know . I did say the right thing , though indeed he could not 
have been more irretrievably 
(in an irretrievable manner)
lost than he was at this 
very moment , when the foundations 
(the basis on which something is grounded)
of 
our intimacy 
(close or warm friendship)
were being laid -- to endure 
(put up with something or somebody unpleasant)

-- to endure -- even to the end -- even beyond . `` 'I had immense plans , ' he 
muttered irresolutely 
(lacking determination or decisiveness)
. 'Yes , ' said I 
; 'but if you try to shout I 'll smash 
(hit hard)
your head with -- ' There was 
not a stick or a stone near . 'I will throttle 
(place limits on (extent or access))

you for good , ' I corrected myself . 'I was on the threshold 
(the starting point for a new state or experience)

of great things , ' he pleaded 
(appeal or request earnestly)
, in a voice of longing 
, with a wistfulness 
(a sadly pensive longing)
of tone that made my blood run cold 
. 'And now for this stupid scoundrel -- ' 'Your success 
(an event that accomplishes its intended purpose)

in Europe is assured in any case , ' I affirmed steadily 
(at a steady rate or pace)

. I did not want to have the throttling 
(place limits on (extent or access))
of 
him , you understand -- and indeed it would have been very little use for any practical 
purpose . I tried to break the spell -- the heavy , mute spell of the wilderness 
-- that seemed to draw him to its pitiless breast by the awakening 
(cause to become awake or conscious)

of forgotten and brutal 
((of persons or their actions) able or disposed to inflict pain or suffering)

instincts 
(inborn pattern of behavior often responsive to specific stimuli)
, by 
the memory of gratified 
(having received what was desired)
and monstrous passions 
(a strong feeling or emotion)

. This alone , I was convinced , had driven him out to the edge of the forest , 
to the bush , towards the gleam of fires , the throb 
(a deep pulsating type of pain)

of drums , the drone 
(stingless male bee in a colony of social bees (especially honeybees) whose sole function is to mate with the queen)

of weird incantations 
(a ritual recitation of words or sounds believed to have a magical effect)

; this alone had beguiled his unlawful 
(not conforming to legality, moral law, or social convention)

soul beyond the bounds 
(the line or plane indicating the limit or extent of something)

of permitted 
(consent to, give permission)
aspirations . And , do n't you see , 
the terror of the position was not in being knocked on the head -- though I had 
a very lively sense of that danger , too -- but in this , that I had to deal with 
a being to whom I could not appeal in the name of anything high or low . I had , 
even like the niggers , to invoke 
(summon into action or bring into existence, often as if by magic)

him -- himself -- his own exalted and incredible degradation 
(changing to a lower state (a less respected state))

. There was nothing either above or below him , and I knew it . He had kicked himself 
loose of the earth . Confound the man ! he had kicked the very earth to pieces . 
He was alone , and I before him did not know whether I stood on the ground or floated 
in the air . I 've been telling you what we said -- repeating 
(the act of doing or performing again)

the phrases we pronounced -- but what 's the good ? They were common everyday words 
-- the familiar , vague sounds exchanged on every waking day of life . But what 
of that ? They had behind them , to my mind , the terrific 
(very great or intense)

suggestiveness of words heard in dreams , of phrases spoken in nightmares . Soul 
! If anybody ever struggled with a soul , I am the man . And I was n't arguing with 
a lunatic either . Believe me or not , his intelligence was perfectly clear -- concentrated 
, it is true , upon himself with horrible 
(provoking horror)
intensity 
(the amount of energy transmitted (as by acoustic or electromagnetic radiation))

, yet clear ; and therein was my only chance -- barring 
(prevent from entering; keep out)

, of course , the killing him there and then , which was n't so good , on account 
of unavoidable noise . But his soul was mad . Being alone in the wilderness , it 
had looked within itself , and , by heavens ! I tell you , it had gone mad . I had 
-- for my sins 
(estrangement from god)
, I suppose -- to go through the ordeal 
(a severe or trying experience)

of looking into it myself . No eloquence could have been so withering 
(wither, as with a loss of moisture)

to one 's belief in mankind 
(all of the living human inhabitants of the earth)

as his final burst of sincerity 
(an earnest and sincere feeling)
. He struggled 
with himself , too . I saw it -- I heard it . I saw the inconceivable mystery of 
a soul that knew no restraint , no faith , and no fear , yet struggling blindly 
(without seeing or looking)

with itself . I kept my head pretty well ; but when I had him at last stretched 
on the couch , I wiped 
(rub with a circular motion)
my forehead , while my legs 
shook under me as though I had carried half a ton on my back down that hill . And 
yet I had only supported him , his bony arm clasped 
(hold firmly and tightly)
round 
my neck -- and he was not much heavier than a child . `` When next day we left at 
noon , the crowd , of whose presence behind the curtain of trees I had been acutely 
(in an acute manner)

conscious 
(intentionally conceived)
all the time , flowed out of the woods again 
, filled the clearing , covered the slope with a mass of naked , breathing 
(the bodily process of inhalation and exhalation; the process of taking in oxygen from inhaled air and releasing carbon dioxide by exhalation)

, quivering 
(shake with fast, tremulous movements)
, bronze bodies . I steamed 
up a bit , then swung down stream , and two thousand eyes followed the evolutions 
(a process in which something passes by degrees to a different stage (especially a more advanced or mature stage))

of the splashing , thumping 
(move rhythmically)
, fierce river-demon beating the 
water with its terrible tail and breathing black smoke into the air . In front of 
the first rank , along the river , three men , plastered 
(apply a heavy coat to)

with bright red earth from head to foot , strutted 
(to walk with a lofty proud gait, often in an attempt to impress others)

to and fro restlessly 
(in a restless manner)
. When we came abreast again , they 
faced the river , stamped 
(walk heavily)
their feet , nodded their horned 
(stab or pierce with a horn or tusk)

heads , swayed their scarlet bodies ; they shook towards the fierce river-demon 
a bunch 
(a grouping of a number of similar things)
of black feathers 
(the light horny waterproof structure forming the external covering of birds)

, a mangy skin with a pendent 
(an adornment that hangs from a piece of jewelry (necklace or earring))

tail -- something that looked a dried gourd 
(bottle made from the dried shell of a bottle gourd)

; they shouted periodically 
(in a sporadic manner)
together strings of amazing 
words that resembled no sounds of human language ; and the deep murmurs 
(a low continuous indistinct sound; often accompanied by movement of the lips without the production of articulate speech)

of the crowd , interrupted suddenly , were like the responses 
(a result)
of some 
satanic 
(extremely evil or cruel; expressive of cruelty or befitting hell)
litany 
(any long and tedious address or recital)

. `` We had carried Kurtz into the pilot-house : there was more air there . Lying 
on the couch , he stared through the open shutter . There was an eddy 
(founder of Christian Science in 1866 (1821-1910))

in the mass of human bodies , and the woman with helmeted 
(equipped with or wearing a helmet)

head and tawny cheeks rushed 
(move fast)
out to the very brink 
(a region marking a boundary)

of the stream . She put out her hands , shouted something , and all that wild mob 
took up the shout in a roaring 
(a deep prolonged loud noise)
chorus 
(any utterance produced simultaneously by a group)

of articulated 
(provide with a joint)
, rapid , breathless utterance . `` 'Do you 
understand this ? ' I asked . `` He kept on looking out past me with fiery , longing 
eyes , with a mingled expression of wistfulness and hate . He made no answer , but 
I saw a smile , a smile of indefinable meaning , appear on his colourless lips that 
a moment after twitched convulsively 
(with convulsions, in a convulsive way)
. 
'Do I not ? ' he said slowly , gasping 
(breathe noisily, as when one is exhausted)

, as if the words had been torn out of him by a supernatural power . `` I pulled 
(cause to move by pulling)

the string 
(a lightweight cord)
of the whistle , and I did this because I saw the 
pilgrims on deck getting out their rifles with an air of anticipating 
(regard something as probable or likely)

a jolly lark 
(North American songbirds having a yellow breast)
. At the sudden 
screech there was a movement of abject terror through that wedged 
(wedged or packed in together)

mass of bodies . 'Do n't ! do n't you frighten them away , ' cried some one on deck 
disconsolately 
(in grief-stricken loneliness; without comforting circumstances or prospects)

. I pulled the string time after time . They broke and ran , they leaped , they 
crouched , they swerved 
(turn sharply; change direction abruptly)
, they dodged 
(make a sudden movement in a new direction so as to avoid)

the flying terror of the sound . The three red chaps had fallen flat , face down 
on the shore , as though they had been shot dead . Only the barbarous and superb 
woman did not so much as flinch 
(a reflex response to sudden pain)
, and stretched 
tragically 
(in a tragic manner; with tragic consequences)
her bare arms after us 
over the sombre and glittering river . `` And then that imbecile crowd down on the 
deck started their little fun , and I could see nothing more for smoke . `` The 
brown current ran swiftly out of the heart of darkness , bearing us down towards 
the sea with twice the speed 
(distance travelled per unit time)
of our upward progress 
; and Kurtz 's life was running swiftly , too , ebbing 
(flow back or recede)
, 
ebbing out of his heart into the sea of inexorable time . The manager was very placid 
, he had no vital 
(urgently needed; absolutely necessary)
anxieties 
((psychiatry) a relatively permanent state of worry and nervousness occurring in a variety of mental disorders, usually accompanied by compulsive behavior or attacks of panic)

now , he took us both in with a comprehensive 
(including all or everything)
and 
satisfied glance : the 'affair ' had come off as well as could be wished . I saw 
the time approaching when I would be left alone of the party of 'unsound method 
. ' The pilgrims looked upon me with disfavour . I was , so to speak , numbered 
(add up in number or quantity)

with the dead . It is strange how I accepted this unforeseen partnership , this 
choice of nightmares forced 
(to cause to do through pressure or necessity, by physical, moral or intellectual means :"She forced him to take a job in the city")

upon me in the tenebrous land invaded by these mean and greedy phantoms . `` Kurtz 
discoursed 
(to consider or examine in speech or writing)
. A voice ! a voice ! 
It rang deep to the very last . It survived his strength to hide in the magnificent 
folds of eloquence the barren 
(an uninhabited wilderness that is worthless for cultivation)

darkness of his heart . Oh , he struggled ! he struggled ! The wastes 
(any materials unused and rejected as worthless or unwanted)

of his weary brain were haunted 
(follow stealthily or recur constantly and spontaneously to)

by shadowy images 
(an iconic mental representation)
now -- images of wealth and 
fame revolving 
(turn on or around an axis or a center)
obsequiously 
(in an obsequious manner)

round his unextinguishable gift of noble and lofty expression . My Intended , my 
station , my career , my ideas -- these were the subjects 
(the subject matter of a conversation or discussion)

for the occasional utterances 
(the use of uttered sounds for auditory communication)

of elevated 
(give a promotion to or assign to a higher position)
sentiments . The 
shade of the original Kurtz frequented 
(do one's shopping at; do business with; be a customer or client of)

the bedside 
(space by the side of a bed (especially the bed of a sick or dying person))

of the hollow sham 
(something that is a counterfeit; not what it seems to be)
, 
whose fate it was to be buried presently in the mould 
(loose soil rich in organic matter)

of primeval earth . But both the diabolic 
(showing the cunning or ingenuity or wickedness typical of a devil)

love and the unearthly hate of the mysteries it had penetrated fought for the possession 
of that soul satiated with primitive emotions , avid of lying fame , of sham distinction 
(a discrimination between things as different and distinct)

, of all the appearances of success and power . `` Sometimes 
(on certain occasions or in certain cases but not always; at other times for six months")

he was contemptibly 
(in a manner deserving contempt)
childish . He desired 
(feel or have a desire for; want strongly)

to have kings meet him at railway-stations on his return from some ghastly Nowhere 
, where he intended to accomplish 
(put in effect)
great things . 'You show them 
you have in you something that is really profitable , and then there will be no 
limits 
(the greatest possible degree of something)
to the recognition 
(the state or quality of being recognized or acknowledged)

of your ability , ' he would say . 'Of course you must take care of the motives 
-- right motives -- always . ' The long reaches that were like one and the same 
reach , monotonous bends that were exactly alike , slipped past the steamer with 
their multitude of secular 
(of or relating to the doctrine that rejects religion and religious considerations)

trees looking patiently after this grimy fragment of another world , the forerunner 
(a person who goes before or announces the coming of another)

of change , of conquest , of trade , of massacres 
(the savage and excessive killing of many people)

, of blessings 
(the formal act of approving)
. I looked ahead -- piloting 
(operate an airplane)

. 'Close the shutter , ' said Kurtz suddenly one day ; 'I ca n't bear to look at 
this . ' I did so . There was a silence . 'Oh , but I will wring 
(twist and press out of shape)

your heart yet ! ' he cried at the invisible 
(impossible or nearly impossible to see; imperceptible by the eye)

wilderness . `` We broke down -- as I had expected -- and had to lie up for repairs 
at the head of an island 
(a land mass (smaller than a continent) that is surrounded by water)

. This delay was the first thing that shook Kurtz's confidence . One morning he 
gave me a packet 
(a collection of things wrapped or boxed together)
of papers and 
a photograph 
(a representation of a person or scene in the form of a print or transparent slide; recorded by a camera on light-sensitive material)

-- the lot tied together with a shoe-string . 'Keep this for me , ' he said . 'This 
noxious 
(injurious to physical or mental health)
fool ' ( meaning the manager ) 
'is capable of prying 
(offensively curious or inquisitive)
into my boxes when I 
am not looking . ' In the afternoon I saw him . He was lying on his back with closed 
eyes , and I withdrew 
(pull back or move away or backward)
quietly , but I heard 
him mutter , 'Live rightly 
(with honesty)
, die , die ... ' I listened . There 
was nothing more . Was he rehearsing 
(engage in a rehearsal (of))
some speech in 
his sleep , or was it a fragment of a phrase from some newspaper 
(a daily or weekly publication on folded sheets; contains news and articles and advertisements)

article 
(nonfictional prose forming an independent part of a publication)
? He 
had been writing for the papers and meant to do so again , 'for the furthering of 
my ideas . It 's a duty . ' `` His was an impenetrable darkness . I looked at him 
as you peer down at a man who is lying at the bottom of a precipice 
(a very steep cliff)

where the sun never shines 
(be bright by reflecting or casting light)
. But I had 
not much time to give him , because I was helping the engine-driver to take to pieces 
the leaky cylinders 
(a solid bounded by a cylindrical surface and two parallel planes (the bases))

, to straighten 
(straighten up or out; make straight)
a bent connecting-rod , and 
in other such matters . I lived in an infernal mess of rust , filings 
(the entering of a legal document into the public record)

, nuts 
(usually large hard-shelled seed)
, bolts 
(a discharge of lightning accompanied by thunder)

, spanners 
(a hand tool that is used to hold or twist a nut or bolt)
, hammers 
(the part of a gunlock that strikes the percussion cap when the trigger is pulled)

, ratchet-drills -- things I abominate 
(find repugnant)
, because I do n't get 
on with them . I tended 
(have a tendency or disposition to do or be something; be inclined)

the little forge we fortunately 
(by good fortune)
had aboard ; I toiled wearily 
(in a weary manner)

in a wretched scrap-heap -- unless I had the shakes 
(building material used as siding or roofing)

too bad to stand . `` One evening coming in with a candle I was startled to hear 
him say a little tremulously 
(in a tremulous manner)
, 'I am lying here in the 
dark waiting for death . ' The light was within a foot of his eyes . I forced myself 
to murmur , 'Oh , nonsense 
(a message that seems to convey no meaning)
! ' and 
stood over him as if transfixed 
(to render motionless, as with a fixed stare or by arousing terror or awe)

. `` Anything approaching the change that came over his features I have never seen 
before , and hope never to see again . Oh , I was n't touched . I was fascinated 
. It was as though a veil had been rent . I saw on that ivory face the expression 
of sombre pride 
(a feeling of self-respect and personal worth)
, of ruthless power 
, of craven 
(lacking even the rudiments of courage; abjectly fearful)
terror -- 
of an intense and hopeless despair . Did he live his life again in every detail 
(an isolated fact that is considered separately from the whole)

of desire , temptation , and surrender during that supreme moment of complete knowledge 
? He cried in a whisper at some image , at some vision -- he cried out twice , a 
cry that was no more than a breath : '' 'The horror 
(intense and profound fear)

! The horror ! ' `` I blew the candle out and left the cabin . The pilgrims were 
dining 
(have supper; eat dinner)
in the mess-room , and I took my place opposite 
(a word that expresses a meaning opposed to the meaning of another word, in which case the two words are antonyms of each other)

the manager , who lifted his eyes to give me a questioning 
(challenge the accuracy, probity, or propriety of)

glance , which I successfully 
(with success; in a successful manner)
ignored . 
He leaned 
(to incline or bend from a vertical position)
back , serene , with that 
peculiar smile of his sealing 
(the act of treating something to make it repel water)

the unexpressed depths of his meanness 
(the quality of being deliberately mean)

. A continuous shower of small flies streamed upon the lamp 
(an artificial source of visible illumination)

, upon the cloth , upon our hands and faces . Suddenly the manager 's boy put his 
insolent black head in the doorway , and said in a tone of scathing contempt 
(lack of respect accompanied by a feeling of intense dislike)

: '' 'Mistah Kurtz -- he dead . ' `` All the pilgrims rushed out to see . I remained 
, and went on with my dinner . I believe I was considered brutally 
(in a vicious manner)

callous 
(emotionally hardened)
. However , I did not eat much . There was a lamp 
in there -- light , do n't you know -- and outside it was so beastly , beastly dark 
. I went no more near the remarkable man who had pronounced a judgment upon the 
adventures 
(a wild and exciting undertaking (not necessarily lawful))
of his soul 
on this earth . The voice was gone . What else had been there ? But I am of course 
aware that next day the pilgrims buried something in a muddy hole . `` And then 
they very nearly buried me . `` However , as you see , I did not go to join Kurtz 
there and then . I did not . I remained to dream the nightmare out to the end , 
and to show my loyalty 
(the quality of being loyal)
to Kurtz once more . Destiny 
. My destiny ! Droll thing life is -- that mysterious arrangement 
(the thing arranged or agreed to)

of merciless logic 
(the branch of philosophy that analyzes inference)
for a futile 
purpose . The most you can hope from it is some knowledge of yourself -- that comes 
too late -- a crop 
(the yield from plants in a single growing season)
of unextinguishable 
regrets . I have wrestled 
(combat to overcome an opposing tendency or force)
with 
death . It is the most unexciting contest 
(an occasion on which a winner is selected from among two or more contestants)

you can imagine . It takes place in an impalpable greyness 
(a neutral achromatic color midway between white and black)

, with nothing underfoot , with nothing around , without spectators 
(a close observer; someone who looks at something (such as an exhibition of some kind))

, without clamour , without glory 
(a state of high honor)
, without the great desire 
of victory 
(a successful ending of a struggle or contest)
, without the great fear 
of defeat 
(an unsuccessful ending to a struggle or contest)
, in a sickly atmosphere 
of tepid 
(moderately warm)
scepticism 
(the disbelief in any claims of ultimate knowledge)

, without much belief in your own right , and still less in that of your adversary 
. If such is the form of ultimate 
(furthest or highest in degree or order; utmost or extreme)

wisdom , then life is a greater riddle 
(a difficult problem)
than some of us think 
it to be . I was within a hair 's breadth 
(the capacity to understand a broad range of topics)

of the last opportunity for pronouncement 
(an authoritative declaration)
, and 
I found with humiliation 
(state of disgrace or loss of self-respect)
that probably 
I would have nothing to say . This is the reason why I affirm that Kurtz was a remarkable 
man . He had something to say . He said it . Since I had peeped over the edge myself 
, I understand better the meaning of his stare , that could not see the flame of 
the candle , but was wide enough to embrace the whole universe 
(everything that exists anywhere)

, piercing 
(cut or make a way through)
enough to penetrate 
(pass into or through, often by overcoming resistance)

all the hearts that beat in the darkness . He had summed 
(be a summary of)
up -- 
he had judged . 'The horror ! ' He was a remarkable man . After all , this was the 
expression of some sort of belief ; it had candour , it had conviction , it had 
a vibrating note of revolt in its whisper , it had the appalling face of a glimpsed 
(catch a glimpse of or see briefly)

truth -- the strange commingling of desire and hate . And it is not my own extremity 
I remember best -- a vision of greyness without form filled with physical pain , 
and a careless contempt for the evanescence 
(the event of fading and gradually vanishing from sight)

of all things -- even of this pain itself . No ! It is his extremity that I seem 
to have lived through . True , he had made that last stride 
(a step in walking or running)

, he had stepped over the edge , while I had been permitted to draw back my hesitating 
foot . And perhaps in this is the whole difference ; perhaps all the wisdom , and 
all truth , and all sincerity , are just compressed 
(make more compact by or as if by pressing)

into that inappreciable 
(too small to make a significant difference)
moment of 
time in which we step over the threshold of the invisible . Perhaps ! I like to 
think my summing-up would not have been a word of careless contempt . Better his 
cry -- much better . It was an affirmation 
(a statement asserting the existence or the truth of something)

, a moral victory paid for by innumerable defeats 
(an unsuccessful ending to a struggle or contest)

, by abominable 
(unequivocally detestable)
terrors 
(an overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety)

, by abominable satisfactions 
(the contentment one feels when one has fulfilled a desire, need, or expectation)

. But it was a victory ! That is why I have remained loyal to Kurtz to the last 
, and even beyond , when a long time after I heard once more , not his own voice 
, but the echo 
(the repetition of a sound resulting from reflection of the sound waves)

of his magnificent eloquence thrown to me from a soul as translucently pure as a 
cliff of crystal 
(a solid formed by the solidification of a chemical and having a highly regular atomic structure)

. `` No , they did not bury me , though there is a period 
(an amount of time)
of 
time which I remember mistily 
(in a misty manner)
, with a shuddering wonder , 
like a passage through some inconceivable world that had no hope in it and no desire 
. I found myself back in the sepulchral city resenting 
(feel bitter or indignant about)

the sight of people hurrying 
(move very fast)
through the streets 
(a thoroughfare (usually including sidewalks) that is lined with buildings)

to filch 
(make off with belongings of others)
a little money from each other , 
to devour their infamous 
(known widely and usually unfavorably; )
cookery 
(the act of preparing something (as food) by the application of heat)

, to gulp 
(to swallow hurriedly or greedily or in one draught)
their unwholesome 
beer 
(a general name for alcoholic beverages made by fermenting a cereal (or mixture of cereals) flavored with hops)

, to dream their insignificant 
(not worthy of notice)
and silly dreams . They trespassed 
(enter unlawfully on someone's property)

upon my thoughts . They were intruders whose knowledge of life was to me an irritating 
(cause annoyance in; disturb, especially by minor irritations)

pretence , because I felt so sure they could not possibly know the things I knew 
. Their bearing , which was simply the bearing of commonplace individuals going 
about their business in the assurance 
(freedom from doubt; belief in yourself and your abilities)

of perfect safety 
(the state of being certain that adverse effects will not be caused by some agent under defined conditions)

, was offensive 
(violating or tending to violate or offend against)
to me like 
the outrageous flauntings of folly in the face of a danger it is unable 
((usually followed by `to') not having the necessary means or skill or know-how)

to comprehend . I had no particular desire to enlighten 
(make understand)
them 
, but I had some difficulty in restraining myself from laughing in their faces so 
full of stupid importance . I daresay I was not very well at that time . I tottered 
(move without being stable, as if threatening to fall)

about the streets -- there were various affairs 
(matters of personal concern)
to 
settle -- grinning 
(to draw back the lips and reveal the teeth, in a smile, grimace, or snarl)

bitterly at perfectly respectable 
(characterized by socially or conventionally acceptable morals)

persons 
(a human being)
. I admit my behaviour 
(the action or reaction of something (as a machine or substance) under specified circumstances)

was inexcusable 
(without excuse or justification)
, but then my temperature was 
seldom normal in these days . My dear aunt 's endeavours 
(a purposeful or industrious undertaking (especially one that requires effort or boldness))

to 'nurse up my strength ' seemed altogether beside the mark . It was not my strength 
that wanted nursing 
(try to cure by special care of treatment, of an illness or injury)

, it was my imagination that wanted soothing . I kept the bundle of papers given 
me by Kurtz , not knowing exactly what to do with it . His mother had died lately 
, watched over , as I was told , by his Intended . A clean-shaved man , with an 
official manner and wearing gold-rimmed spectacles , called on me one day and made 
inquiries 
(a search for knowledge)
, at first circuitous 
(marked by obliqueness or indirection in speech or conduct)

, afterwards suavely 
(with suavity; in a suave manner)
pressing , about what he 
was pleased to denominate 
(assign a name or title to)
certain 'documents . ' I 
was not surprised , because I had had two rows with the manager on the subject 
(the subject matter of a conversation or discussion)

out there . I had refused 
(show unwillingness towards)
to give up the smallest 
(limited or below average in number or quantity or magnitude or extent)

scrap 
(a small fragment of something broken off from the whole)
out of that package 
(a collection of things wrapped or boxed together)

, and I took the same attitude with the spectacled man . He became darkly menacing 
at last , and with much heat argued 
(present reasons and arguments)
that the Company 
had the right to every bit of information about its 'territories . ' And said he 
, 'Mr . Kurtz's knowledge of unexplored regions 
(the extended spatial location of something)

must have been necessarily extensive 
(large in spatial extent or range or scope or quantity)

and peculiar -- owing 
(be obliged to pay or repay)
to his great abilities and to 
the deplorable circumstances 
(your overall circumstances or condition in life (including everything that happens to you))

in which he had been placed 
(put into a certain place or abstract location)
: therefore 
-- ' I assured him Mr. Kurtz 's knowledge , however extensive , did not bear upon 
the problems 
(a state of difficulty that needs to be resolved)
of commerce 
(transactions (sales and purchases) having the objective of supplying commodities (goods and services))

or administration . He invoked 
(summon into action or bring into existence, often as if by magic)

then the name of science . 'It would be an incalculable 
(not capable of being computed or enumerated)

loss if , ' etc. , etc . I offered him the report on the 'Suppression of Savage 
Customs , ' with the postscriptum torn off . He took it up eagerly , but ended 
(have an end, in a temporal, spatial, or quantitative sense; either spatial or metaphorical)

by sniffing at it with an air of contempt . 'This is not what we had a right to 
expect , ' he remarked . 'Expect nothing else , ' I said . 'There are only private 
(confined to particular persons or groups or providing privacy)

letters . ' He withdrew upon some threat 
(something that is a source of danger)

of legal 
(established by or founded upon law or official or accepted rules)
proceedings 
, and I saw him no more ; but another fellow , calling 
(assign a specified (usually proper) proper name to)

himself Kurtz 's cousin 
(the child of your aunt or uncle)
, appeared two days later 
, and was anxious to hear all the details about his dear relative's last moments 
. Incidentally 
(introducing a different topic; in point of fact)
he gave me to 
understand that Kurtz had been essentially a great musician 
(someone who plays a musical instrument (as a profession))

. 'There was the making of an immense success , ' said the man , who was an organist 
(a person who plays an organ)

, I believe , with lank grey hair flowing 
(move or progress freely as if in a stream)

over a greasy coat-collar . I had no reason to doubt his statement 
(a message that is stated or declared; a communication (oral or written) setting forth particulars or facts etc)

; and to this day I am unable to say what was Kurtz's profession , whether he ever 
had any -- which was the greatest of his talents 
(natural abilities or qualities)

. I had taken him for a painter 
(an artist who paints)
who wrote for the papers 
, or else for a journalist 
(a writer for newspapers and magazines)
who could paint 
-- but even the cousin ( who took snuff 
(the charred portion of a candlewick)
during 
the interview ) could not tell me what he had been -- exactly . He was a universal 
((linguistics) a grammatical rule (or other linguistic feature) that is found in all languages)

genius -- on that point I agreed with the old chap , who thereupon blew his nose 
noisily 
(with much noise or loud and unpleasant sound)
into a large cotton handkerchief 
(a square piece of cloth used for wiping the eyes or nose or as a costume accessory)

and withdrew in senile agitation , bearing off some family letters and memoranda 
(a written proposal or reminder)

without importance . Ultimately 
(as the end result of a succession or process)

a journalist anxious to know something of the fate of his 'dear colleague 
(an associate that one works with)

' turned up . This visitor 
(someone who visits)
informed me Kurtz 's proper sphere 
(a particular environment or walk of life)

ought to have been politics 
(social relations involving intrigue to gain authority or power)

'on the popular 
(regarded with great favor, approval, or affection especially by the general public)

side . ' He had furry 
(covered with a dense coat of fine silky hairs)
straight 
eyebrows , bristly hair cropped 
(cut short)
short , an eyeglass 
(lens for correcting defective vision in one eye; held in place by facial muscles)

on a broad ribbon 
(any long object resembling a thin line)
, and , becoming expansive 
(able or tending to expand or characterized by expansion)

, confessed 
(confess to a punishable or reprehensible deed, usually under pressure)

his opinion that Kurtz really could n't write a bit -- 'but heavens ! how that man 
could talk . He electrified 
(excite suddenly and intensely)
large meetings 
(a formally arranged gathering)

. He had faith -- don't you see ? -- he had the faith . He could get himself to 
believe anything -- anything . He would have been a splendid leader of an extreme 
party . ' 'What party ? ' I asked . 'Any party , ' answered the other . 'He was 
an -- an -- extremist 
(a person who holds extreme views)
. ' Did I not think so 
? I assented 
(to agree or express agreement)
. Did I know , he asked , with a sudden 
flash of curiosity , 'what it was that had induced 
(cause to arise)
him to go out 
there ? ' 'Yes , ' said I , and forthwith handed 
(place into the hands or custody of)

him the famous 
(widely known and esteemed)
Report for publication 
(a copy of a printed work offered for distribution)

, if he thought fit . He glanced through it hurriedly , mumbling all the time , 
judged 'it would do , ' and took himself off with this plunder 
(goods or money obtained illegally)

. `` Thus 
((used to introduce a logical conclusion) from that fact or reason or as a result)

I was left at last with a slim packet of letters and the girl's portrait 
(a word picture of a person's appearance and character)

. She struck me as beautiful -- I mean she had a beautiful expression . I know that 
the sunlight can be made to lie , too , yet one felt that no manipulation 
(exerting shrewd or devious influence especially for one's own advantage)

of light and pose could have conveyed 
(make known; pass on, of information)
the 
delicate shade of truthfulness 
(the quality of being truthful)
upon those features 
. She seemed ready to listen without mental reservation 
(a district that is reserved for particular purpose)

, without suspicion , without a thought for herself . I concluded 
(decide by reasoning; draw or come to a conclusion)

I would go and give her back her portrait and those letters myself . Curiosity ? 
Yes ; and also some other feeling perhaps . All that had been Kurtz 's had passed 
out of my hands : his soul , his body , his station , his plans , his ivory , his 
career . There remained only his memory and his Intended -- and I wanted to give 
that up , too , to the past , in a way -- to surrender personally all that remained 
of him with me to that oblivion 
(the state of being disregarded or forgotten)
which 
is the last word of our common fate . I do n't defend 
(argue or speak in defense of)

myself . I had no clear perception 
(the representation of what is perceived; basic component in the formation of a concept)

of what it was I really wanted . Perhaps it was an impulse 
(an instinctive motive)

of unconscious loyalty , or the fulfilment 
(a feeling of satisfaction at having achieved your desires)

of one of those ironic 
(humorously sarcastic or mocking)
necessities 
(the condition of being essential or indispensable)

that lurk in the facts of human existence . I do n't know . I ca n't tell . But 
I went . `` I thought his memory was like the other memories of the dead that accumulate 
in every man 's life -- a vague impress 
(the act of coercing someone into government service)

on the brain of shadows that had fallen on it in their swift and final passage ; 
but before the high and ponderous door , between the tall houses of a street as 
still and decorous 
(characterized by propriety and dignity and good taste in manners and conduct)

as a well-kept 
(kept in good condition)
alley 
(a narrow street with walls on both sides)

in a cemetery 
(a tract of land used for burials)
, I had a vision of him on the 
stretcher , opening his mouth voraciously 
(in an eagerly voracious manner)
, as 
if to devour all the earth with all its mankind . He lived then before me ; he lived 
as much as he had ever lived -- a shadow insatiable 
(impossible to satisfy)
of 
splendid appearances , of frightful realities ; a shadow darker than the shadow 
of the night , and draped nobly 
(in a noble manner)
in the folds of a gorgeous 
eloquence . The vision seemed to enter the house with me -- the stretcher , the 
phantom-bearers , the wild crowd of obedient worshippers 
(a person who has religious faith)

, the gloom of the forests , the glitter of the reach between the murky bends , 
the beat of the drum , regular and muffled like the beating of a heart -- the heart 
of a conquering 
(the act of conquering)
darkness . It was a moment of triumph 
(a successful ending of a struggle or contest)

for the wilderness , an invading and vengeful rush which , it seemed to me , I would 
have to keep back alone for the salvation 
((theology) the act of delivering from sin or saving from evil)

of another soul . And the memory of what I had heard him say afar there , with the 
horned shapes stirring 
(move an implement through)
at my back , in the glow of 
fires , within the patient woods , those broken phrases came back to me , were heard 
again in their ominous and terrifying simplicity . I remembered his abject pleading 
(appeal or request earnestly)

, his abject threats 
(something that is a source of danger)
, the colossal scale 
of his vile desires 
(the feeling that accompanies an unsatisfied state)
, the meanness 
, the torment , the tempestuous 
(characterized by violent emotions or behavior)

anguish of his soul . And later on I seemed to see his collected languid manner 
, when he said one day , 'This lot of ivory now is really mine . The Company did 
not pay for it . I collected it myself at a very great personal 
(concerning or affecting a particular person or his or her private life and personality)

risk . I am afraid they will try to claim it as theirs though . H 'm . It is a difficult 
case . What do you think I ought to do -- resist ? Eh ? I want no more than justice. 
' ... He wanted no more than justice -- no more than justice . I rang the bell before 
a mahogany 
(wood of any of various mahogany trees; much used for cabinetwork and furniture)

door on the first floor , and while I waited he seemed to stare at me out of the 
glassy panel -- stare with that wide and immense stare embracing 
(include in scope; include as part of something broader; have as one's sphere or territory)

, condemning 
(express strong disapproval of)
, loathing 
(find repugnant)
all the 
universe . I seemed to hear the whispered cry , `` The horror ! The horror ! '' 
`` The dusk was falling . I had to wait in a lofty drawing-room with three long 
windows from floor to ceiling 
(the overhead upper surface of a covered space)
that 
were like three luminous and bedraped columns 
(a line of units following one after another)

. The bent gilt 
(a coating of gold or of something that looks like gold)
legs and 
backs 
(the posterior part of a human (or animal) body from the neck to the end of the spine)

of the furniture 
(furnishings that make a room or other area ready for occupancy)

shone in indistinct curves 
(the trace of a point whose direction of motion changes)

. The tall marble fireplace 
(an open recess in a wall at the base of a chimney where a fire can be built)

had a cold and monumental 
(relating or belonging to or serving as a monument)
whiteness 
. A grand piano 
(a keyboard instrument that is played by depressing keys that cause hammers to strike tuned strings and produce sounds)

stood massively 
(to a massive degree or in a massive manner)
in a corner ; with 
dark gleams on the flat surfaces 
(the outer boundary of an artifact or a material layer constituting or resembling such a boundary)

like a sombre and polished sarcophagus 
(a stone coffin (usually bearing sculpture or inscriptions))

. A high door opened -- closed . I rose . `` She came forward , all in black , with 
a pale head , floating 
(be in motion due to some air or water current)
towards 
me in the dusk . She was in mourning 
(state of sorrow over the death or departure of a loved one)

. It was more than a year since his death , more than a year since the news came 
; she seemed as though she would remember and mourn 
(feel sadness)
forever . She 
took both my hands in hers and murmured , 'I had heard you were coming . ' I noticed 
she was not very young -- I mean not girlish 
(befitting or characteristic of a young girl)

. She had a mature capacity for fidelity 
(accuracy with which an electronic system reproduces the sound or image of its input signal)

, for belief , for suffering 
(a state of acute pain)
. The room seemed to have 
grown 
(pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific property or attribute; become)

darker , as if all the sad light of the cloudy evening had taken refuge 
(a safe place)

on her forehead . This fair hair , this pale visage 
(the human face (`kisser' and `smiler' and `mug' are informal terms for `face' and `phiz' is British))

, this pure brow , seemed surrounded by an ashy 
(of a light grey)
halo 
(an indication of radiant light drawn around the head of a saint)

from which the dark eyes looked out at me . Their glance was guileless , profound 
, confident , and trustful 
(inclined to believe or confide readily; full of trust)

. She carried her sorrowful head as though she were proud of that sorrow , as though 
she would say , 'I -- I alone know how to mourn for him as he deserves 
(be worthy or deserving)

. ' But while we were still shaking hands , such a look of awful desolation came 
upon her face that I perceived she was one of those creatures that are not the playthings 
(an artifact designed to be played with)

of Time . For her he had died only yesterday . And , by Jove ! the impression was 
so powerful that for me , too , he seemed to have died only yesterday -- nay 
(a negative)

, this very minute . I saw her and him in the same instant of time -- his death 
and her sorrow -- I saw her sorrow in the very moment of his death . Do you understand 
? I saw them together -- I heard them together . She had said , with a deep catch 
of the breath , 'I have survived ' while my strained 
(to exert much effort or energy)

ears seemed to hear distinctly 
(clear to the mind; with distinct mental discernment)

, mingled with her tone of despairing 
(abandon hope; give up hope; lose heart)

regret , the summing up whisper of his eternal condemnation 
(an expression of strong disapproval; pronouncing as wrong or morally culpable)

. I asked myself what I was doing there , with a sensation of panic in my heart 
as though I had blundered into a place of cruel and absurd mysteries not fit for 
a human being to behold . She motioned 
(show, express or direct through movement)

me to a chair . We sat down . I laid the packet gently on the little table , and 
she put her hand over it ... . 'You knew him well , ' she murmured , after a moment 
of mourning silence . `` 'Intimacy grows 
(pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific property or attribute; become)

quickly out there , ' I said . 'I knew him as well as it is possible for one man 
to know another . ' `` 'And you admired 
(feel admiration for)
him , ' she said 
. 'It was impossible to know him and not to admire 
(feel admiration for)
him . 
Was it ? ' `` 'He was a remarkable man , ' I said , unsteadily 
(in an unsteady manner)

. Then before the appealing fixity 
(the quality of being fixed in place as by some firm attachment)

of her gaze , that seemed to watch for more words on my lips , I went on , 'It was 
impossible not to -- ' '' 'Love him , ' she finished eagerly , silencing 
(cause to be quiet or not talk)

me into an appalled dumbness 
(the quality of being mentally slow and limited)
. 
'How true ! how true ! But when you think that no one knew him so well as I ! I 
had all his noble confidence . I knew him best . ' `` 'You knew him best , ' I repeated 
. And perhaps she did . But with every word spoken the room was growing darker , 
and only her forehead , smooth and white , remained illumined 
(make lighter or brighter)

by the inextinguishable 
(difficult or impossible to extinguish)
light of belief 
and love . `` 'You were his friend , ' she went on . 'His friend , ' she repeated 
, a little louder . 'You must have been , if he had given you this , and sent you 
to me . I feel I can speak to you -- and oh ! I must speak . I want you -- you who 
have heard his last words -- to know I have been worthy of him ... . It is not pride 
... . Yes ! I am proud to know I understood him better than any one on earth -- 
he told me so himself . And since his mother died I have had no one -- no one -- 
to -- to -- ' '' I listened . The darkness deepened 
(make more intense, stronger, or more marked)

. I was not even sure whether he had given me the right bundle . I rather suspect 
he wanted me to take care of another batch of his papers which , after his death 
, I saw the manager examining 
(consider in detail and subject to an analysis in order to discover essential features or meaning)

under the lamp . And the girl talked , easing 
(move gently or carefully)
her pain 
in the certitude 
(total certainty or greater certainty than circumstances warrant)

of my sympathy ; she talked as thirsty men drink . I had heard that her engagement 
(a hostile meeting of opposing military forces in the course of a war)

with Kurtz had been disapproved 
(consider bad or wrong)
by her people . He was 
n't rich 
(possessing material wealth)
enough or something . And indeed I do n't 
know whether he had not been a pauper 
(a person who is very poor)
all his life 
. He had given me some reason to infer 
(reason by deduction; establish by deduction)

that it was his impatience 
(a lack of patience; irritation with anything that causes delay)

of comparative 
(relating to or based on or involving comparison)
poverty 
(the state of having little or no money and few or no material possessions)

that drove him out there . `` ' ... Who was not his friend who had heard him speak 
once ? ' she was saying . 'He drew men towards him by what was best in them . ' 
She looked at me with intensity . 'It is the gift of the great , ' she went on , 
and the sound of her low voice seemed to have the accompaniment 
(an event or situation that happens at the same time as or in connection with another)

of all the other sounds , full of mystery , desolation , and sorrow , I had ever 
heard -- the ripple of the river , the soughing of the trees swayed by the wind 
, the murmurs of the crowds 
(a large number of things or people considered together)

, the faint ring of incomprehensible words cried from afar , the whisper of a voice 
speaking from beyond the threshold of an eternal darkness . 'But you have heard 
him ! You know ! ' she cried . `` 'Yes , I know , ' I said with something like despair 
in my heart , but bowing my head before the faith that was in her , before that 
great and saving 
(save from ruin, destruction, or harm)
illusion 
(an erroneous mental representation)

that shone with an unearthly glow in the darkness , in the triumphant darkness from 
which I could not have defended 
(argue or speak in defense of)
her -- from which 
I could not even defend myself . `` 'What a loss to me -- to us ! ' -- she corrected 
herself with beautiful generosity 
(the trait of being willing to give your money or time)

; then added in a murmur , 'To the world . ' By the last gleams of twilight 
(the time of day immediately following sunset)

I could see the glitter of her eyes , full of tears -- of tears that would not fall 
. `` 'I have been very happy -- very fortunate 
(having unexpected good fortune)

-- very proud , ' she went on . 'Too fortunate . Too happy for a little while . 
And now I am unhappy for -- for life . ' `` She stood up ; her fair hair seemed 
to catch all the remaining light in a glimmer 
(a flash of light (especially reflected light))

of gold . I rose , too . `` 'And of all this , ' she went on mournfully 
(in a mournful manner)

, 'of all his promise , and of all his greatness , of his generous 
(willing to give and share unstintingly)

mind , of his noble heart , nothing remains -- nothing but a memory . You and I 
-- ' '' 'We shall always remember him , ' I said hastily . `` 'No ! ' she cried 
. 'It is impossible that all this should be lost -- that such a life should be sacrificed 
(endure the loss of)

to leave nothing -- but sorrow . You know what vast plans he had . I knew of them 
, too -- I could not perhaps understand -- but others knew of them . Something must 
remain . His words , at least , have not died . ' `` 'His words will remain , ' 
I said . `` 'And his example , ' she whispered to herself . 'Men looked up to him 
-- his goodness shone in every act . His example -- ' '' 'True , ' I said ; 'his 
example , too . Yes , his example . I forgot that . ' `` But I do not . I can not 
-- I can not believe -- not yet . I can not believe that I shall never see him again 
, that nobody will see him again , never , never , never . ' `` She put out her 
arms as if after a retreating figure , stretching them back and with clasped pale 
hands across the fading 
(weakening in force or intensity)
and narrow sheen of the 
window . Never see him ! I saw him clearly enough then . I shall see this eloquent 
phantom as long as I live , and I shall see her , too , a tragic and familiar Shade 
, resembling in this gesture another one , tragic also , and bedecked 
(decorate)

with powerless charms , stretching bare brown arms over the glitter of the infernal 
stream , the stream of darkness . She said suddenly very low , 'He died as he lived 
. ' `` 'His end , ' said I , with dull anger stirring in me , 'was in every way 
worthy of his life . ' `` 'And I was not with him , ' she murmured . My anger subsided 
(wear off or die down)

before a feeling of infinite pity . `` 'Everything that could be done -- ' I mumbled 
. `` 'Ah , but I believed in him more than any one on earth -- more than his own 
mother , more than -- himself . He needed 
(require as useful, just, or proper)

me ! Me ! I would have treasured 
(hold dear)
every sigh , every word , every sign 
, every glance . ' `` I felt like a chill grip on my chest . 'Do n't , ' I said 
, in a muffled voice . `` 'Forgive me . I -- I have mourned 
(feel sadness)
so long 
in silence -- in silence ... . You were with him -- to the last ? I think of his 
loneliness . Nobody near to understand him as I would have understood . Perhaps 
no one to hear ... .' '' 'To the very end , ' I said , shakily 
(in an insecurely shaky manner)

. 'I heard his very last words ... .' I stopped in a fright . `` 'Repeat them , 
' she murmured in a heart-broken tone . 'I want -- I want -- something -- something 
-- to -- to live with . ' `` I was on the point of crying 
(utter a sudden loud cry)

at her , 'Do n't you hear them ? ' The dusk was repeating them in a persistent 
(never-ceasing)

whisper all around us , in a whisper that seemed to swell menacingly 
(in a menacing manner)

like the first whisper of a rising 
(move upward)
wind . 'The horror ! The horror 
! ' `` 'His last word -- to live with , ' she insisted 
(be emphatic or resolute and refuse to budge)

. 'Do n't you understand I loved him -- I loved him -- I loved him ! ' `` I pulled 
myself together and spoke slowly . `` 'The last word he pronounced was -- your name 
. ' `` I heard a light sigh and then my heart stood still , stopped dead short by 
an exulting 
(feel extreme happiness or elation)
and terrible cry , by the cry of 
inconceivable triumph and of unspeakable pain . 'I knew it -- I was sure ! ' ... 
She knew . She was sure . I heard her weeping 
(shed tears because of sadness, rage, or pain)

; she had hidden her face in her hands . It seemed to me that the house would collapse 
before I could escape , that the heavens would fall upon my head . But nothing happened 
. The heavens do not fall for such a trifle . Would they have fallen , I wonder 
, if I had rendered 
(cause to become)
Kurtz that justice which was his due ? Had 
n't he said he wanted only justice ? But I could n't . I could not tell her . It 
would have been too dark -- too dark altogether ... . '' Marlow ceased , and sat 
apart , indistinct and silent , in the pose of a meditating Buddha . Nobody moved 
for a time . `` We have lost the first of the ebb , '' said the Director suddenly 
. I raised my head . The offing was barred by a black bank of clouds , and the tranquil 
waterway leading to the uttermost ends of the earth flowed sombre under an overcast 
